.\" $XConsortium: fs.man,v 1.4 91/10/24 21:27:20 rws Exp $
.TH FS 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
fs \- X font server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "fs"
[-config \fIconfiguration_file\fP]
[-port \fItcp_port\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Fs
is the X Window System font server.  It supplies fonts to X Window
System display servers.
.SH "STARTING THE SERVER"
The server is usually run by a system administrator, and started via 
boot files like \fI/etc/rc.local\fR.  Users may also wish to start
private font servers for specific sets of fonts.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 8
.B \-config configuration_file
Specifies the configuration file the font server will use.
.TP 8
.B \-ls listen-socket
Specifies a file descriptor which is already set up to be used as the
listen socket.  This option is only intended to be used by the font server
itself when automatically spawning another copy of itself to handle
additional connections.
.TP 8
.B \-port tcp_port
Specifies the TCP port number on which the server will listen for connections.
.SH "SIGNALS"
.TP 8
.I SIGTERM
This causes the font server to exit cleanly.
.TP 8
.I SIGUSR1
This signal is used to cause the server to re-read its configuration file.
.TP 8
.I SIGUSR2
This signal is used to cause the server to flush any cached data it
may have.
.TP 8
.I SIGHUP
This signal is used to cause the server to reset, closing all active
connections and re-reading the configuration file.
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
The configuration language is a list of keyword and value pairs.
Each keyword is followed by an '=' and then the desired value.
.PP
Recognized keywords include:
.sp
.\" .IP "cache-size (cardinal)"
.\" Size in bytes of the font server cache.
.IP "catalogue (list of string)"
Ordered list of font path element names.
Use of the keyword "catalogue" is very misleading at present,
the current implementation only supports a single catalogue ("all"),
containing all of the specified fonts.
.IP "alternate-servers (list of string)"
List of alternate servers for this font server.
.IP "client-limit (cardinal)"
Number of clients this font server will support 
before refusing service.  This is useful for tuning 
the load on each individual font server.
.IP "clone-self (boolean)"
Whether this font server should attempt to clone itself
when it reachs the client-limit.
.IP "default-point-size (cardinal)"
The default pointsize (in decipoints) for fonts that 
don't specify.
.IP "default-resolutions (list of resolutions)"
Resolutions the server supports by default.
This information may be used as a hint for 
pre-rendering, and substituted for scaled fonts 
which do not specify a resolution.
.IP "error-file (string)"
Filename of the error file.  All warnings and errors
will be logged here.
.IP "port (cardinal)"
TCP port on which the server will listen for connections.
.IP "use-syslog (boolean)"
Whether syslog(3) (on supported systems) is to be used 
for errors.
.\" .IP "trusted-clients (list of string)"
.\" Those clients the fontserver will talk to.  Others
.\" will be refused for the initial connection.  An empty
.\" list means the server will talk to any client.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.nf
#
# sample font server configuration file
#

# allow a max of 10 clients to connect to this font server
client-limit = 10

# when a font server reaches its limit, start up a new one
clone-self = on

# alternate font servers for clients to use
alternate-servers = hansen:7001,hansen:7002

# where to look for fonts
# the first is a set of Speedo outlines, the second is a set of 
# misc bitmaps and the last is a set of 100dpi bitmaps
#
catalogue = /usr/lib/fonts/speedo,
	/usr/lib/X11/ncd/fonts/misc,
	/usr/lib/X11/ncd/fonts/100dpi/

# in 12 points, decipoints
default-point-size = 120

# 100 x 100 and 75 x 75
default-resolutions = 100,100,75,75
.fi
.sp
.SH "FONT SERVER NAMES"
One of the following forms can be used to name a font server that
accepts TCP connections:
.sp
.nf
    tcp/\fIhostname\fP:\fIport\fP
    tcp/\fIhostname\fP:\fIport\fP/\fIcataloguelist\fP
.fi
.PP
The \fIhostname\fP specifies the name (or decimal numeric address)
of the machine on which the font server is running.  The \fIport\fP
is the decimal TCP port on which the font server is listening for connections.
The \fIcataloguelist\fP specifies a list of catalogue names,
with '+' as a separator.
.PP
Examples: \fItcp/expo.lcs.mit.edu:7000\fP, \fItcp/18.30.0.212:7001/all\fP.
.PP
One of the following forms can be used to name a font server that
accepts DECnet connections:
.sp
.nf
    decnet/\fInodename\fP::font$\fIobjname\fP
    decnet/\fInodename\fP::font$\fIobjname\fP/\fIcataloguelist\fP
.fi
.PP
The \fInodename\fP specifies the name (or decimal numeric address)
of the machine on which the font server is running.
The \fIobjname\fP is a normal, case-insensitive DECnet object name.
The \fIcataloguelist\fP specifies a list of catalogue names,
with '+' as a separator.
.PP
Examples: \fIDECnet/SRVNOD::FONT$DEFAULT\fP, \fIdecnet/44.70::font$special/symbols\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), \fIFont server implementation overview\fB
.SH BUGS
Multiple catalogues should be supported.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1991, Network Computing Devices, Inc
Copyright 1991, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
Dave Lemke, Network Computing Devices, Inc
.br
Keith Packard, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
