.de EX		\"Begin example
.ne 5
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
.nf
.in +.5i
..
.de EE
.fi
.in -.5i
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
..
.TH PLBPEX 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
plbpex \- picture level benchmark program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B plbpex [-options] verb_file_name(s)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Plbpex is used to view PEX graphics in the GPC, or Graphics Performance
Characterization suite.  To run it, you must be in the same directory as
a verb command, or *.vrb file.  Some of these are located in the directories
demos/gpc/objects, tests, and benchmarks. You must have write permission in
that directory because the program will be creating and writing to an 
error file.  Type:

host% ../plbpex [-display geometry bd bg bw hlsr buff] filename

The filenme must be one of the .vrb files located in the objects directory.

.SH OPTIONS
    -display displaystring         X server to connect to
    -geometry geomstring           size and location
    -bd color                      border color
    -bg color                      background color
    -bw pixels                     border width
    -hlhsr mode                    one of the following:
                   NONE ZBUFF PAINTERS SCANLINE LINE
    -buff mode                     one of the following:
                                       SINGLE DOUBLE
    -h                             this message

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
PEX-SI User Guide in doc/extensions/PEX/SI/User_Guide

.SH BUGS
plbpex may crash due to color allocation problems when a window manage
is running.
.LP
pex only implements hlhsr value none.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1991, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

