.\"$NCDId: @(#)showfont.man,v 4.2 1991/06/27 18:32:35 lemke Exp $
.TH SHOWFONT 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
showfont - font dumper for X font server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B showfont
[-options ...] [-fn pattern]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Showfont
displays data about the font that matches the given \fIpattern\fP.
The wildcard character "*" may be used to match any sequence of
characters (including none), and "?" to match any single character.
If no pattern is given, "*" is assumed.
.PP
The "*" and "?" characters must be quoted to prevent them from
being expanded by the shell.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-server \fIhost\fP:\fIport\fP
This option specifies the X font server to contact.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-l
This option indicates that the bit order of the font is LSBFirst
(least significant bit first).
.TP 8
.B \-m
This option indicates that the bit order of the font is MSBFirst
(most significant bit first).
.TP 8
.B \-L
This option indicates that the byte order of the font is LSBFirst
(least significant byte first).
.TP 8
.B \-M
This option indicates that the byte order of the font is MSBFirst
(most significant byte first).
.TP 8
.B \-extents_only
This option indicates that only the font's extents should be displayed.
.TP 8
.B \-start#
This option indicates the start of the range of the characters to display
(# is a number).
.TP 8
.B \-end#
This option indicates the end of the range of the characters to display
(# is a number).
.TP 8
.B \-unit#
This option specifies the scanline unit of the font (1, 2, 4 or 8).
(# is a number).
.TP 8
.B \-pad#
.TP 8
.B \-unit#
This option specifies the scanpad unit of the font (1, 2, 4 or 8).
(# is a number).
.TP 8
.B \-bitmap_pad#
This option specifies the bitmap padding unit of the font (0, 1, or 2,
where 0 is ImageRectMin, 1 is ImageRectMaxWidth and 2 is ImageRectMaxWidth).
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fs(1), showfont(1), xlsfonts(1)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 8
.B FONTSERVER
to get the default host and port to use.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1991, Network Computing Devices, Inc
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Lemke, Network Computing Devices, Inc
