.TH XCONSOLE 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xconsole - monitor system console messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ta 8n
\fBxconsole\fP	[-\fItoolkitoption\fP ...] [-file \fIfile-name\fP]
[-notify] [-stripNonprint] [-daemon] [-verbose] [-exitOnFail] [-tail]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I xconsole 
program displays messages which are usually sent to /dev/console.
.SH OPTIONS
.I Xconsole
accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options along with the 
additional options listed below:
.TP 8
.B \-file \fIfile-name\fP
To monitor some other device, use this option to specify the device name.
This does not work on regular files as they are always ready to be read from.
.TP 8
.B \-tail
This option makes
.I xconsole
work on a regular file.  Only data appended to the file after
.I xconsole
starts is displayed.
.TP 8
.B \-notify \-nonotify
When new data are received from the console and the notify option is set,
the icon name of the application has " *" appended, so that it is evident
even when the application is iconified.  \-notify is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-daemon
This option causes
.I xconsole
to place itself in the background, using fork/exit.
.TP 8
.B \-verbose
When set, this option directs
.I xconsole
to display an informative message in the first line of the text buffer.
.TP 8
.B \-exitOnFail
When set, this option directs
.I xconsole
to exit when it is unable to redirect the console output.
.SH X DEFAULTS
This program uses the 
.I Athena Text
widget, look in the
.I Athena Widget Set
documentation for controlling it.
.SH WIDGETS
In order to specify resources, it is useful to know the hierarchy of
the widgets which compose \fIxconsole\fR.  In the notation below,
indentation indicates hierarchical structure.  The widget class name
is given first, followed by the widget instance name.
.sp
.nf
.TA .5i 
.ta .5i 
XConsole  xconsole
	XConsole  text
.fi
.sp
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/XConsole - specifies required resources
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), xrdb(1), Athena Text widget
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Keith Packard (MIT X Consortium)
