.\" $XFree86: mit/server/ddx/x386/XF86_Acc.man,v 2.11 1993/10/21 15:53:56 dawes Exp $
.\" $XConsortium: X386.man,v 1.3 91/08/26 15:31:19 gildea Exp $
.TH XF86_Accel 1 "Version 2.0"  "XFree86"
.SH NAME
XF86_Accel - 8 bit accelerated X Window System servers for UNIX on x86
platforms with an S3, Mach8, Mach32 or 8514/A accelerator board
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B XF86_S3
[:displaynumber] [ option ] ...
.LP
.B XF86_Mach8
[:displaynumber] [ option ] ...
.LP
.B XF86_Mach32
[:displaynumber] [ option ] ...
.LP
.B XF86_8514
[:displaynumber] [ option ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I XFree86
is a package of bug-fixes, enhancements, and ports of X11R5 to new OSs,
for Intel Unix-like OSs.  See the XFree86(1) manpage for details.
.PP
.I XF86_S3
is an 8-bit PseudoColor server for S3 graphic accelerator boards.  
.PP
.I XF86_Mach8
is an 8-bit PseudoColor server for ATI Mach8 graphic accelerator boards. 
.PP
.I XF86_Mach32
is an 8-bit PseudoColor server for ATI Mach32 graphic accelerator boards.  
.PP
.I XF86_8514
is an 8-bit PseudoColor server for 8514/A graphic accelerator boards.  
.PP
These are derived from the
.I X386
server provided with X11R5, and from the
.I X8514
server developed by Kevin Martin <martin@cs.unc.edu>.
.PP
The
.I XFree86
servers support all MIT-supplied extensions except the X Input Extension.
.I PEX
is supported, but does not function well on the class of hardware supported.
.SH CONFIGURATIONS
.PP
The servers support the following chipsets in 256 color mode.
.RS .5i
.TP 13
XF86_S3:
86C911, 86C924, 86C801, 86C805, 86C928
.TP 13
XF86_Mach8:
ATI Mach8, ATI Mach32
.TP 13
XF86_Mach32:
ATI Mach32
.TP 13
XF86_8514:
IBM 8514/A and true clones
.RE
.PP
For S3 virtual resolutions up to (approximately)
1152x800 are supported, using  (up to) 1Mb of display memory
(the S3 uses an internal width of 1280, hence 1Mb can't support
1152x900).
Physical resolutions up to 1280x1024 are possible using 2Mb or
more of display memory (virtual resolution is dependent solely on the
amount of memory installed).
Similar resolutions are supported on the Mach32.
For the Mach32, the maximum virtual width is 1536, and the maximum virtual
height is 1280.
For Mach8, the maximum virtual width is 1024, and 
for 8514 the maximum resolution is 1024x768.
.SH OPTIONS
In addition to the normal server options described in the \fIXserver(1)\fP
manual page, these servers accept some more command line switches,
as described in the 
.I XFree86(1) 
manpage.
.SH "KEYBOARD"
\fIXFree86\fP provides several capabilities for easing the use of international
keyboards, and generating non-ASCII Latin-1 keysyms.  Refer to the
.I XFree86kbd(1)
manual page for more information.
.SH SETUP
.I XFree86
uses a configuration file called \fBXconfig\fP for its initial setup.  
See the 
.I Xconfig(4/5)
manpage for general details. Here only the
parts specific to the
.I XF86_S3, XF86_Mach8, XF86_Mach32, XF86_8514
servers are explained.
The \fBGRAPHICS DRIVER SETUP\fP section for the accelerated colour servers
starts with the keyword \fBaccel\fP.  
After this keyword a variety of options may be specified:
.br
.ne 3i
.TP 8
.B chipset \fI"name"\fP
specifies a chipset so the correct driver can be used.  Possible chipsets
are:
.sp
XF86_S3:
.RS 1.5i
.TP 12
generic_s3
(for a standard IO driven server) 
.TP 12
mmio_928
(for a memory mapped IO driven server on 86C928 boards)
.RE
.RS 8
.PP
XF86_Mach8:
.RE
.RS 1.5i
.TP 12
mach8
(to force the Mach8 server to run on Mach32 boards)
.RE
.RS 8
.PP
XF86_Mach32:
.RE
.RS 1.5i
.PP
mach32
.RE
.RS 8
.PP
XF86_8514:
.RE
.RS 1.5i
.PP
ibm8514
.RE
.TP 8
.B clocks \fIclock\fP  ...
specifies the dotclocks that are on your graphics board.  The clocks are
in MHz, and may be specified as a floating point number.  The value is
stored internally to the nearest kHz.  The ordering of the clocks
is important.  It must match the order in which they are selected on the
graphics board.  Multiple \fBclocks\fP lines may be specified.
For programmable clock chips the name  of the clockchip  is given.
Possible values include \fB"icd2061a"\fP and \fB"icd2061a_slow"\fP.  These
are currently only supported by the S3 server.
.TP 8
.B option \fI"optionstring"\fP
allows the user to select certain options provided by the drivers.  Currently 
the following strings are recognized:
.sp
\fBnomemaccess\fP - (S3) disable direct access to video memory.  This is the
default for localbus cards when linear mapping is not possible.
.sp
\fBmemaccess\fP - (S3) prevent direct video memory access being disabled
for localbus cards when linear mapping is not possible.
.sp
\fBnolinear\fP - (S3 and Mach32) disable use of a linear-mapped framebuffer.
.sp
\fBbt485\fP - (S3) Card has a BrookTree Bt485 RAMDAC.  This option is required
if the server fails to detect the Bt485.
.sp
\fBno_bt485\fP - (S3) Card does not have a BrookTree Bt485 RAMDAC.  This
option is only required if the server detects a Bt485 when none is present.
.sp
\fBbt485_curs\fP - (S3) Enables the Bt485's internal HW cursor.
.sp
\fBsw_cursor\fP - (Mach32) Disable the hardware cursor.
.PP
Note that \fIXFree86\fP has some internal capabilities to determine
what hardware
it is running on. Thus normally the keywords \fIchipset\fP, \fIclocks\fP,
and \fIvideoram\fP don't have to be specified.  But there
may be occasions when this autodetection mechanism fails, (for example, too
high of load on the machine when you start the server).  For cases like this,
one should first run the server on an unloaded machine, look at the
results of the autodetection (that are printed out during server startup)
and then explicitly specify these parameters in the configuration file.
\fBIt is recommended that all parameters, especially Clock values,
be specified in the Xconfig file.\fP
.PP
Note: the Mach32 server will not auto-detect the clocks.
.PP
The last section is the \fBTABLE OF VIDEO MODES\fP which starts with the
keyword \fBmodedb\fP.   This is covered in the
.I Xconfig(4/5) 
manpage. For details on how to build your own video modes please refer
to the tutorial written by Eric Raymond.
.SH FILES
.TP 30
/usr/X386/bin/XF86_S3
The 8-bit color X server for S3
.TP 30
/usr/X386/bin/XF86_Mach8
The 8-bit color X server for Mach8
.TP 30
/usr/X386/bin/XF86_Mach32
The 8-bit color X server for Mach32
.TP 30
/usr/X386/bin/XF86_8514
The 8-bit color X server for IBM 8514 and true compatibles
.TP 30
/usr/X386/lib/X11/Xconfig
Server configuration file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), Xserver(1), XFree86kbd(1), XFree86(1), Xconfig(4/5), xdm(1), xinit(1)
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
In addition to the authors of \fIXFree86\fP the following people
contributed major work to this server:
.PP
.nf
Kevin Martin,    \fImartin@cs.unc.edu\fP
Jon Tombs,       \fIjon@gtex02.us.es\fP
Rik Faith,       \fIfaith@cs.unc.edu\fP
.fi
.RS 8
Did the overall work on the base accelerated servers.
.RE
.PP
.nf
David Dawes,     \fIdawes@physics.su.oz.au\fP
Dirk Hohndel,    \fIhohndel@informatik.uni-wuerzburg.de\fP
David Wexelblat, \fIdwex@goblin.org\fP, \fIdwex@aib.com\fP
.fi
.RS 8
Merged their work into XFree86.
.RE
.PP
.nf
Jon Tombs,       \fIjon@gtex02.us.es\fP
David Wexelblat, \fIdwex@goblin.org\fP, \fIdwex@aib.com\fP
David Dawes,     \fIdawes@physics.su.oz.au\fP
Amancio Hasty,   \fIhasty@netcom.com\fP
.fi
.RS 8
Development and improvement of the S3 specific code.
.RE
.PP
.nf
Kevin Martin,    \fImartin@cs.unc.edu\fP
Rik Faith,       \fIfaith@cs.unc.edu\fP
Tiago Gons,      \fItiago@comosjn.hobby.nl\fP
Hans Nasten,     \fInasten@everyware.se\fP
Scott Laird,     \fIlair@midway.uchicago.edu\fP
.fi
.RS 8
Development and improvement of the Mach8 and 8514/A specific code.
.RE
.PP
.nf
Kevin Martin,    \fImartin@cs.unc.edu\fP
Rik Faith,       \fIfaith@cs.unc.edu\fP
Mike Bernson,    \fImike@mbsun.mlb.org\fP
Mark Weaver,     \fIMark_Weaver@brown.edu\fP
.fi
.RS 8
Development and improvement of the Mach32 specific code.
.RE
.PP
See also the
.I XFree86(1)
manual page.
.SH BUGS
.PP
S3 cards with Bt485 ramdacs and ATI cards are currently restricted to
dot-clocks less than 85MHz.  This restriction is because the servers don't
yet support operating the ramdacs in multiplexed mode.
.SH CONTACT INFO
\fIXFree86\fP source is available from the FTP servers 
\fIftp.physics.su.oz.au\fP and \fIftp.x.org\fP.  Send email to
\fIXFree86@physics.su.oz.au\fP for details.

