.\" $XFree86: mit/server/ddx/x386/XF86_Mono.man,v 2.9 1993/10/18 12:16:10 dawes Exp $
.\" $XConsortium: X386.man,v 1.3 91/08/26 15:31:19 gildea Exp $
.TH XF86_Mono 1 "Version 2.0"  "XFree86"
.SH NAME
XF86_Mono - 1 bit non-accelerated X Window System servers for UNIX on
x86 platforms
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B XF86_Mono
[:displaynumber] [ option ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I XFree86
is a package of bug-fixes, enhancements, and ports of X11R5 to new OSs,
for Intel Unix-like OSs. See the XFree86(1) manpage for details.
.I XF86_Mono
is a 1-bit StaticGrey server for VGA, Super-VGA, and Hercules, and some
other monochrome cards.
.PP
The
.I XFree86
servers support all MIT-supplied extensions except the X Input Extension.
.I PEX
is not supported on 1-bit hardware.
.SH CONFIGURATIONS
.PP
The
.I XF86_Mono
server supports the following popular SuperVGA chipsets in monochrome mode.
.RS .5i
.TP 4
Tseng:
ET3000, ET4000, ET4000/W32
.TP 4
Western Digital:
PVGA1, WD90C00, WD90C10, WD90C11, WD90C30, WD90C31
.TP 4
Genoa:
GVGA
.TP 4
Trident:
TVGA8800CS, TVGA8900B, TVGA8900C, TVGA8900CL, TVGA9000
.TP 4
NCR:
77C22, 77C22E
.TP 4
Compaq:
AVGA
.TP 4
Oak:
OTI067, OTI077
.RE
.PP
Additionally it
supports generic VGA cards, Hercules monochrome graphics cards, and the Hyundai
HGC1280 card.
.PP
On supported SVGA chipsets, 
.I XF86_Mono
will use up to 256Kb of display memory (the memory available to the mono 
server is one quarter of the total for SVGA chipsets), which yields a
maximum virtual resolution of (approximately) 1600x1200.  On unsupported 
SVGA chipsets, and generic VGA cards, this server uses only 64Kb of display
memory, which yields a maximum virtual resolution of (approximately) 800x650.
For a Hercules card, the standard resolution of 720x348 is supported.  On 
systems with both a VGA and Hercules card installed, the monochrome server 
can drive both in a double-headed configuration.
.I XF86_Mono
does not support the accelerated functions of the supported chipsets.
.SH OPTIONS
In addition to the normal server options described in the \fIXserver(1)\fP
manual page, \fIXF86_Mono\fP accepts some more command line switches,
as described in the 
.I XFree86(1) 
manpage.
.SH "KEYBOARD"
\fIXFree86\fP provides several capabilities for easing the use of international
keyboards, and generating non-ASCII Latin-1 keysyms.  Refer to the
.I XFree86kbd(1)
manual page for more information.
.SH SETUP
.I XFree86
uses a configuration file called \fBXconfig\fP for its initial setup.  
See the 
.I Xconfig(4/5) 
manpage for general details. Here only the
.I XF86_Mono
specific parts are explained.
.PP
The \fBGRAPHICS DRIVER SETUP\fP section for the monochrome server starts
with the keyword \fBvga2\fP, and the section for the mono hga driver starts
with the keyword \fBhga2\fP.  The section for the "banked dumb mono" driver
starts with the keyword \fBbdm2\fP.
For servers with multiple screens supported,
only those with entries will be enabled.
After this keyword a variety of options may be specified (most
are not relevant to the \fBhga2\fP driver because it only supports a single
resolution):
.br
.ne 3i
.TP 8
.B chipset \fI"name"\fP
specifies a chipset so the correct driver can be used.  Possible chipsets
are:
.sp
VGA2:
.RS 1.5i
.TP 4
Tseng:
et3000, et4000
.TP 4
Western Digital:
pvga1, wd90c00, wd90c10, wd90c30
.TP 4
Genoa:
gvga
.TP 4
Trident:
tvga8800cs, tvga8900b, tvga8900c, tvga8900cl, tvga9000 
.TP 4
NCR:
ncr77c22, ncr77c22e
.TP 4
Compaq:
cpq_avga
.TP 4
OAK:
oti067, oti077
.TP 4
Generic VGA:
generic 
.RE
.RS 8
.PP
HGA2:
.RE
.RS 1.5i
.TP 4
Hercules:
hga6845
.RE
.RS 8
.PP
BDM2:
.RE
.RS 1.5i
.TP 4
Hyundai:
hgc1280
.RE
.TP 8
.B clocks \fIclock\fP  ...
specifies the dotclocks that are on your graphics board.  The clocks are
in MHz, and may be specified as a floating point number.  The value is
stored internally to the nearest kHz.  The ordering of the clocks
is important.  It must match the order in which they are selected on the
graphics board.  Multiple \fBclocks\fP lines may be specified.
.TP 8
.B black \fIred green blue\fP
sets the ``black'' colour to the rgb values specified.  These values must be
given as integers in the range 0\-63.  The default is \fI0\ 0\ 0\fP.  This
option is only valid for the \fBvga2\fP screen type.
.TP 8
.B white \fIred green blue\fP
sets the ``white'' colour to the rgb values specified.  These values must be
given as integers in the range 0\-63.  The default is \fI63\ 63\ 63\fP.  This
option is only valid for the \fBvga2\fP screen type.
.TP 8
.B option \fI"optionstring"\fP
allows the user to select certain options provided by the drivers.  Currently 
the following strings are recognized:
.sp
\fBlegend\fP - for Sigma Legend ET4000-based boards.  This option enables
a special clock-selection algorithm used on Legend boards, and MUST be
specified for these boards to function correctly.
.sp
\fBswap_hibit\fP - for Western Digital/PVGA1 chipsets.  Some Western Digital
based boards require the high-order clock-select lead to be inverted.  It
is not possible for the server to determine this information at run-time.
If the 9th clock in the list of clocks detected by the server is less than
30Mhz, this option likely needs to be set.
.sp
\fBhibit_low\fP, \fBhibit_high\fP - for Tseng ET4000 chipsets.  With
some ET4000 cards, the server has difficulty getting the state of the
high-order clocks select bit right when started from a high-resolution text
mode.  These options allow the correct initial state of that bit to be
specified.  To find out what the correct initial state is, start the server
from an 80x25 text mode.  This option is only needed if the clocks reported
by the server when started from a high-resolution text mode differ from
those reported when it is started from an 80x25 text mode.
.sp
\fB8clocks\fP - for the PVGA1 chipset the default is 4 clocks.  Some
cards with this chipset may support 8 clocks.  Specifying this option
will allow the driver to detect and use the extra clocks.
.sp
\fB16clocks\fP - for Trident TVGA8900B and 8900C chipsets.  Some newer boards
using 8900B and 8900C chipsets actually support 16 clocks rather than the
standard 8 clocks.  Such boards will have a "TCK9002" or "TCK9004" chip
on them.  Specifying this option will allow the driver to detect and use
the extra 8 clocks.
.ig
intern_disp (use internal display for laptops -- WD90C2x)
extern_disp (use external display for laptops -- WD90C2x)
..
.PP
Note that \fIXFree86\fP has some internal capabilities to determine
what hardware
it is running on. Thus normally the keywords \fIchipset\fP, \fIclocks\fP,
and \fIvideoram\fP don't have to be specified.  But there
may be occasions when this autodetection mechanism fails, (for example, too
high of load on the machine when you start the server).  For cases like this,
one should first run \fIXF86_Mono\fP on an unloaded machine, look at the
results of the autodetection (that are printed out during server startup)
and then explicitly specify these parameters in the configuration file.
\fBIt is recommended that all parameters, especially Clock values,
be specified in the Xconfig file.\fP
.PP
The last section is the \fBTABLE OF VIDEO MODES\fP which starts with the
keyword \fBmodedb\fP.  This is covered in the
.I Xconfig(4/5) 
manpage. For details on how to build your own video modes please refer
to the tutorial written by Eric Raymond.
.SH FILES
.TP 30
/usr/X386/bin/XF86_Mono
The monochrome X server
.TP 30
/usr/X386/lib/X11/Xconfig
Server configuration file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), Xserver(1), XFree86kbd(1), XFree86(1), Xconfig(4/5), xdm(1), xinit(1)
.SH BUGS
.PP
There are no known bugs at this time, although we welcome reports emailed
to the address listed below.
.SH CONTACT INFO
\fIXFree86\fP source is available from the FTP servers 
\fIftp.physics.su.oz.au\fP and \fIftp.x.org\fP.  Send email to
\fIXFree86@physics.su.oz.au\fP for details.
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Refer to the
.I XFree86(1)
manual page.
