.\" $XFree86: mit/server/ddx/x386/XFree86.man,v 2.9 1993/10/21 15:54:01 dawes Exp $
.\" $XConsortium: X386.man,v 1.3 91/08/26 15:31:19 gildea Exp $
.TH XFree86 1 "Version 2.0"  "XFree86"
.SH NAME
XFree86 - X11R5 Enhancement Package for UNIX on x86 platforms
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I XFree86
is a package of bug-fixes, enhancements, and ports of X11R5 to new OSs,
for Intel Unix-like OSs, and a collection of new X Window System
servers.  This work is derived from
.I "X386\ 1.2"
which was contributed to X11R5 by Snitily Graphics Consulting Service.
.PP
The
.I XFree86
servers support all MIT-supplied extensions except the X Input Extension.
.I PEX
is supported on the 8-bit pseudo-colour servers, but does not function
well on the class of hardware supported.
.SH CONFIGURATIONS
.PP
.I XFree86
operates under the following operating systems:
.RS .5i
.na
.PP
-- SVR3.2: ISC, AT&T, SCO
.br
-- SVR4.0: ESIX, Microport, Dell, UHC, Consensys, MST, ISC, AT&T, NCR
.br
-- SVR4.2: Consensys, Univel (UnixWare)
.br
-- 386BSD version 0.1, FreeBSD 1.0, NetBSD 0.9 (i386 port only)
.br
-- BSD/386 version 1.0
.br
-- Mach (from CMU)
.br
-- Linux
.br
-- Minix-386 version 1.6.16 rev 92 and higher
.br
-- Amoeba version 5.1
.ad
.RE
.PP
.SH "NETWORK CONNECTIONS"
\fIXFree86\fP supports connections made using the following reliable
byte-streams:
.TP 4
.I "Local"
\fIXFree86\fP supports local connections via Streams pipe via various mechanisms,
using the following paths (\fIn\fP represents the display number):
.sp .5v
.in 8
.nf
/dev/X/server.\fBn\fR (SVR3 and SVR4)
/dev/X/Nserver.\fBn\fR (SVR4)
/tmp/.X11-unix/X\fBn\fR (ISC SVR3)
/dev/X\fBn\fRS and /dev/X\fBn\fRR (SCO SVR3)
.fi
.in
.sp .5v
On SVR4.0.4, if the \fIAdvanced Compatibility Package\fP 
is installed, and in SVR4.2, \fIXFree86\fP supports local connections 
from clients for SCO XSight/ODT, and (with modifications to the binary) 
clients for ISC SVR3.
.TP 4
.I "Unix Domain"
\fIXFree86\fP uses \fI/tmp/.X11-unix/X\fBn\fR as the filename for the socket,
where \fIn\fP is the display number (SVR4, BSD, Linux, Mach).
.TP 4
.I TCP\/IP
\fIXFree86\fP listens on port htons(6000+\fIn\fP), where \fIn\fP is the display
number (SVR3, SVR4, BSD, Linux, Mach, Minix).
.TP 4
.I "Amoeba RPC"
This is the default communication medium used under native Amoeba.
Note that under Amoeba, the server should be started
with a ``\fIhostname\fP:\fIdisplaynumber\fP'' argument.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
For operating systems that support local connections other than Unix Domain
sockets (SVR3 and SVR4), there is a compiled-in list specifying the order 
in which local connections should be attempted.  This list can be overridden by
the \fIXLOCAL\fP environment variable described below.  If the display name 
indicates a best-choice connection should be made (e.g. \fI:0.0\fP), each 
connection mechanism is tried until a connection succeeds or no more 
mechanisms are available.
.PP
The \fIXLOCAL\fP environment variable should contain a list of one more
more of the following:
.sp .5v
.in 8
.nf
UNIX
NAMED
USL
SCO
ISC
.fi
.in
.sp .5v
which represent Unix-Domain socket, SVR4 Named Streams pipe, Old-style USL
Streams pipe, SCO XSight Streams pipe, and ISC Streams pipe, respectively.
You can select a single mechanism (e.g. \fIXLOCAL=NAMED\fP), or an ordered
list (e.g. \fIXLOCAL="NAMED:USL:SCO"\fP).  This variable overrides the
compiled-in defaults.
.PP
To globally override the compiled-in defaults, you should define (and
export if using \fIsh\fP or \fIksh\fP) \fIXLOCAL\fP globally.  If you
use \fIstartx/xinit\fP, the definition should be at the top of your
\fI.xinitrc\fP file.  If you use \fIxdm\fP, the definitions should be
early on in the \fI/usr/X386/lib/X11/xdm/Xsession\fP script.
.PP
XFree86 supports installing the binary distribution in a directory other
than the compile-time selected default.  This may be set at run-time
by setting the \fIXWINHOME\fP environment variable.  In this and related
documentation, \fI/usr/X386\fP may be replaced by \fI$XWINHOME\fP.  In
addition to changing \fIXWINHOME\fP, the \fIPATH\fP, \fIMANPATH\fP, and
\fILD_LIBRARY_PATH\fP variables should also be updated where applicable.
Note: changing the installed location may cause problems for systems with
shared libraries which don't have something analogous to
\fILD_LIBRARY_PATH\fP (like SVR3).
.SH OPTIONS
In addition to the normal server options described in the \fIXserver(1)\fP
manual page, \fIXFree86\fP accepts the following command line switches:
.TP 8
.B vt\fIXX\fP
\fIXX\fP specifies the Virtual Terminal device number which 
\fIXFree86\fP will use.  Without this option, \fIXFree86\fP will pick the first
available Virtual Terminal that it can locate.  This option applies only
to SVR3, SVR4, Linux, and BSD OSs with the 'syscons' driver.
.TP 8
.B \-probeonly
Causes the server to exit after the device probing stage.  The Xconfig file
is still used when this option is given, so information that can be
auto-detected should be commented out.
.TP 8
.B \-quiet
Suppress most informational messages at startup.
.TP 8
.B \-showconfig
Print out a list of screen drivers configured in the server.
.TP 8
.B \-verbose
Maximise information printed at startup (this is the default).
.TP 8
.B \-xconfig \fIfile\fP
Read the server configuration from \fIfile\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-keeptty
Prevent the server from detaching its initial controlling terminal.  This
option is only useful when debugging the server.
.SH "KEYBOARD"
Multiple key presses recognized directly by \fIXFree86\fP are:
.TP 8
.B Ctrl+Alt+Backspace
Immediately kills the server -- no questions asked.  (Can be disabled by
specifying "dontzap" in the configuration file.)
.TP 8
.B Ctrl+Alt+Keypad-Plus
Change video mode to next one specified in the configuration file,
(increasing video resolution order).
.TP 8
.B Ctrl+Alt+Keypad-Minus
Change video mode to previous one specified in the configuration file,
(decreasing video resolution order).
.TP 8
.B Ctrl+Alt+F1...F12
For BSD systems using the syscons driver and Linux, these keystroke
combinations are used to switch to Virtual 
Console 1 through 12.
.PP
\fIXFree86\fP provides several capabilities for easing the use of international
keyboards, and generating non-ASCII Latin-1 keysyms.  Refer to the
.I XFree86kbd(1)
manual page for more information.
.SH SETUP
.I XFree86
uses a configuration file called \fBXconfig\fP for its initial setup.  
Refer to the
.I Xconfig(4/5)
manual page for more information.
.SH FILES
.TP 30
/usr/X386/bin/XF86_SVGA
The 8-bit color X server
.TP 30
/usr/X386/bin/XF86_Mono
The monochrome X server
.TP 30
/usr/X386/bin/XF86_S3
The accelerated S3 X server
.TP 30
/usr/X386/bin/XF86_Mach8
The accelerated Mach8 X server
.TP 30
/usr/X386/bin/XF86_Mach32
The accelerated Mach32 X server
.TP 30
/usr/X386/bin/XF86_8514
The accelerated 8514/A X server
.TP 30
/usr/X386/lib/X11/Xconfig
Server configuration file
.TP 30
/usr/X386/lib/X11/etc
Additional \fIXFree86\fP support files
.TP 30
/usr/X386/lib/X11/etc/VideoModes.doc
The Video Timing tutorial by Eric Raymond
.TP 30
/usr/X386/bin/\(**
Client binaries
.TP 30
/usr/X386/include/\(**
Header files
.TP 30
/usr/X386/lib/\(**
Libraries
.TP 30
/usr/X386/lib/X11/fonts/\(**
Fonts
.TP 30
/usr/X386/lib/X11/rgb.txt
Color names to RGB mapping
.TP 30
/usr/X386/lib/X11/XErrorDB
Client error message database
.TP 30
/usr/X386/lib/X11/app-defaults/\(**
Client resource specifications
.TP 30
/usr/X386/man/man?/\(**
Manual pages
.TP 30
/tmp/.X\fIn\fP-lock
Server lock file for display \fIn\fP
.TP 30
/etc/X\fIn\fP.hosts
Initial access control list for display \fIn\fP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), Xserver(1), XFree86kbd(1), xdm(1), xinit(1), Xconfig(4/5),
XF86_SVGA(1), XF86_VGA16(1), XF86_Mono(1), XF86_S3(1), XF86_8514(1),
XF86_Mach8(1), XF86_Mach32(1)
.SH BUGS
.PP
There are no known bugs at this time, although we welcome reports emailed
to the address listed below.
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
For X11R5, \fIX386 1.2\fP was provided by:
.TP 8
Thomas Roell,      \fIroell@informatik.tu-muenchen.de\fP
TU-Muenchen:  Server and SVR4 stuff
.TP 8
Mark W. Snitily,   \fImark@sgcs.com\fP
SGCS:  SVR3 support, X Consortium Sponsor
.PP
 ... and many more people out there on the net who helped with ideas and
bug-fixes.
.PP
\fIX386\fP X11R5 source and binaries are available from SGCS.
Send email to \fIinfo@sgcs.com\fP or \fImark@sgcs.com\fP
for details.
.PP
The \fIXFree86\fP enhancement package was provided by:
.TP 8
David Dawes,       \fIdawes@physics.su.oz.au\fP
Mono server, and many other fixes (e.g. VT switching).
Administration of FTP repository and mailing lists.  Source tree management
and integration, accelerated server integration, fixing, and coding.
.TP 8
Glenn Lai,         \fIglenn@cs.utexas.edu\fP
The SpeedUp code for ET4000 based SVGA cards. 
.TP 8
Jim Tsillas,       \fIjtsilla@damon.ccs.northeastern.edu\fP
Many server speedups from the fX386 series of enhancements, port of LOCALCONN
from X11R4.
.TP 8
David Wexelblat,   \fIdwex@goblin.org\fP, \fIdwex@aib.com\fP
Release coordination, integration of the fX386 code into the default server, 
many driver fixes, and driver documentation, assembly of the VGA 
card/monitor database, development of the generic video mode listing.
Accelerated server integration, fixing, and coding.
.TP 8
Dirk Hohndel,      \fIhohndel@informatik.uni-wuerzburg.de\fP
Linux shared libraries and release coordination.  Accelerated server
integration and fixing.  Generic administrivia and documentation.
.PP
.TP 8
Amancio Hasty Jr., \fIhasty@netcom.com\fP
Porting to \fB386BSD\fP version 0.1 and XS3 development.
.TP 8
Rich Murphey,      \fIRich@Rice.edu\fP
Ported to \fB386BSD\fP version 0.1 based on the original port by Pace Willison.
Support for \fB386BSD\fP, \fBFreeBSD\fP, and \fBNetBSD\fP.
.TP 8
Robert Baron,      \fIRobert.Baron@ernst.mach.cs.cmu.edu\fP
Ported to \fBMach\fP.
.TP 8
Orest Zborowski,   \fIorestz@microsoft.com\fP
Ported to \fBLinux\fP.
.TP 8
David McCullough,  \fIdavidm@stallion.oz.au\fP
Ported to \fBSCO SVR3\fP.
.TP 8
Kees Verstoep,     \fIversto@cs.vu.nl\fP
Ported to \fBAmoeba\fP based on Leendert van Doorn's original Amoeba port of
X11R5.
.TP 8
Marc Evans,        \fIMarc@Synergetics.Com\fP
Ported to \fBOSF/1\fP.
.TP 8
Philip Homburg,    \fIphilip@cs.vu.nl\fP
Ported to \fBMinix-386\fP.
.TP 8
Thomas Wolfram,    \fIwolf@prz.tu-berlin.de\fP
SVR3 shared libraries.
.TP 8
Jon Tombs,         \fIjon@gtex02.us.es\fP
S3 server and accelerated server coordination.
.TP 8
Kevin Martin,      \fImartin@cs.unc.edu\fP
Overall work on the base accelerated servers (ATI and 8514/A).
.TP 8
Rik Faith,         \fIfaith@cs.unc.edu\fP
Overall work on the base accelerated servers (ATI and 8514/A).
.TP 8
Tiago Gons,        \fItiago@comosjn.hobby.nl\fP
Mach8 and 8514/A server development
.TP 8
Hans Nasten,       \fInasten@everyware.se\fP
Mach8 and 8514/A server development and BSD/386 support
.TP 8
Mike Bernson,      \fImike@mbsun.mlb.org\fP
Mach32 server development.
.TP 8
Mark Weaver,       \fIMark_Weaver@brown.edu\fP
Mach32 server development.
.TP 8
Simon Cooper,      \fIscooper@vizlab.rutgers.edu\fP
Cirrus accelerated code (based on work by Bill Reynolds).
.TP 8
Mike Tierney,      \fIfloyd@eng.umd.edu\fP
WD accelerated code.
.TP 8
Gertjan Akkerman,  \fIakkerman@dutiba.twi.tudelft.nl\fP
16 colour VGA server.
.TP 8
Davor Matic,       \fIdmatic@Athena.MIT.EDU\fP
Hercules driver and frame buffer support.
.TP 8
Pascal Haible,     \fIhaible@izfm.uni-stuttgart.de\fP
Mono frame buffer support for dumb monochrome devices (bdm2)
.PP
 ... and many more people out there on the net who helped with beta-testing
this enhancement.
.PP
\fIXFree86\fP source is available from the FTP servers 
\fIftp.physics.su.oz.au\fP and \fIftp.x.org\fP, among others.  Send email to
\fIXFree86@physics.su.oz.au\fP for details.
