.ds xL Programming With Xlib
.TH XAllowDeviceEvents 3X11 "Release 5" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XAllowDeviceEvents \- release queued events
.SH SYNTAX
XAllowDeviceEvents\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIdevice\fP\^, \fIevent_mode\fP\^, \fItime\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      XDevice *\fIdevice\fP\^; 
.br
      int \fIevent_mode\fP\^; 
.br
      Time \fItime\fP\^; 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 12
.I display
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.TP 12
.I device
Specifies the device from which events are to be allowed.
.TP 12
.I event_mode
Specifies the event mode.
You can pass 
\fIAsyncThisDevice\fP, 
\fISyncThisDevice\fP, 
\fIReplayThisDevice\fP, 
\fIAsyncOtherDevices\fP, 
\fISyncAll\fP,
or
\fIAsyncAll\fP.
.TP 12
.I time
Specifies the time.
You can pass either a timestamp or
\fICurrentTime\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIXAllowDeviceEvents\fP
function releases some queued events if the client has caused a device 
to freeze.
It has no effect if the specified time is earlier than the last-grab
time of the most recent active grab for the client and device, 
or if the specified time is later than the current X server time.
.P
The following describes the processing that occurs depending on what
constant you pass to the event_mode argument.
.TP 12
\fIAsyncThisDevice\fP
If the specified device is frozen by the client, event processing for that
device continues as usual.  If the device is frozen multiple times by the client
on behalf of multiple separate grabs, \fIAsyncThisDevice\fP thaws for all.
\fIAsyncThisDevice\fP has no effect if the specified device is not frozen by
the client, but the device need not be grabbed by the client.
.TP 12
\fISyncThisDevice\fP
If the specified device is frozen and actively grabbed by the client, event
processing for that device continues normally until the next key or button
event is reported to the client.  At this time, the specified device
again appears to freeze.  However, if the reported event causes the grab
to be released, the specified device does not freeze.  \fISyncThisDevice\fP
has no effect if the specified device is not frozen by the client or is not
grabbed by the client.
.TP 12
\fIReplayThisDevice\fP
If the specified device is actively grabbed by the client and is frozen as
the result of an event having been sent to the client (either from the
activation of a GrabDeviceButton or from a previous AllowDeviceEvents with
mode SyncThisDevice, but not from a GrabDevice), the grab is released and that
event is completely reprocessed.  This time, however, the request ignores
any passive grabs at or above (toward the root) that the grab-window of the
grab just released.  The request has no effect if the specified device is
not grabbed by the client or if it is not frozen as the result of an event.
.TP 12
\fIAsyncOtherDevices\fP
If the remaining devices are frozen by the client, event processing for them
continues as usual.  If the other devices are frozen multiple times by the
client on behalf of multiple grabs, \fIAsyncOtherDevices\fP "thaws" for
all.  \fIAsyncOtherDevices\fP has no effect if the devices are not frozen
by the client.
.TP 12
\fISyncAll\fP
If all devices are frozen by the client, event processing (for all devices)
continues normally until the next button or key event is reported to the
client for a grabbed device, at which time all devices again appear to freeze.
However, if the reported event causes the grab to be released, then the devices
do not freeze.  If any device is still grabbed, then a subsequent event for it
will still cause all devices to freeze.  \fISyncAll\fP has no
effect unless all devices are frozen by the client.  If any device is 
frozen twice by the client on behalf of two separate grabs, \fISyncAll\fP thaws
for both.  A subsequent freeze for \fISyncAll\fP will only
freeze each device once.
.TP 12
\fIAsyncAll\fP
If all devices are frozen by the client, event processing for all devices
continues normally.  If any device is frozen multiple times by the client
on behalf of multiple separate grabs, \fIAsyncAll\fP thaws for
all.  \fIAsyncAll\fP has no effect unless all devices are frozen by
the client.
.P
\fIAsyncThisDevice\fP,
\fISyncThisDevice\fP,
and
\fIReplayThisDevice\fP
have no effect on the processing of events from the remaining devices.
\fIAsyncOtherDevices\fP
has no effect on the processing of events from the specified device.  When
the event_mode is
\fISyncAll\fP
or
\fIAsyncAll\fP,
the device parameter is ignored.
.P
It is possible for several grabs of different devices by the same or
different clients to be active simultaneously.  If a device is frozen on
behalf of any grab, no event processing is performed for the device.
It is possible for a single device to be frozen because of several grabs.
In this case, the freeze must be released on behalf of each grab before
events can again be processed.
.P
\fIXAllowDeviceEvents\fP
can generate a \fIBadDevice\fP or
\fIBadValue\fP 
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 12
\fIBadDevice\fP
An invalid device was specified.  The specified device does not exist or has 
not been opened by this client via \fIXOpenInputDevice\fP.  This error may
also occur if the specified device is the X keyboard or X pointer device.
.TP 12
\fIBadValue\fP
An invalid mode was specified on the request.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XGrabDevice(3X11)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
