.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XConfigureEvent 3X11 "Release 5" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XConfigureEvent \- ConfigureNotify event structure
.SH STRUCTURES
The structure for
.ZN ConfigureNotify
events contains:
.LP
.Ds 0
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
typedef struct {
	int type;	/* ConfigureNotify */
	unsigned long serial;	/* # of last request processed by server */
	Bool send_event;	/* true if this came from a SendEvent request */
	Display *display;	/* Display the event was read from */
	Window event;
	Window window;
	int x, y;
	int width, height;
	int border_width;
	Window above;
	Bool override_redirect;
} XConfigureEvent;
.De
.LP
When you receive this event,
the structure members are set as follows.
.LP
The type member is set to the event type constant name that uniquely identifies
it.
For example, when the X server reports a
.ZN GraphicsExpose
event to a client application, it sends an
.ZN XGraphicsExposeEvent
structure with the type member set to
.ZN GraphicsExpose .
The display member is set to a pointer to the display the event was read on.
The send_event member is set to
.ZN True
if the event came from a
.ZN SendEvent
protocol request.
The serial member is set from the serial number reported in the protocol
but expanded from the 16-bit least-significant bits to a full 32-bit value.
The window member is set to the window that is most useful to toolkit
dispatchers.
.LP
The event member is set either to the reconfigured window or to its parent,
depending on whether
.ZN StructureNotify
or
.ZN SubstructureNotify
was selected.
The window member is set to the window whose size, position, 
border, and/or stacking
order was changed.
.LP
The x and y members are set to the coordinates relative to the parent window's 
origin and indicate the position of the upper-left outside corner of the window.
The width and height members are set to the inside size of the window, 
not including
the border.
The border_width member is set to the width of the window's border, in pixels.
.LP
The above member is set to the sibling window and is used 
for stacking operations.
If the X server sets this member to
.ZN None ,
the window whose state was changed is on the bottom of the stack
with respect to sibling windows.
However, if this member is set to a sibling window, 
the window whose state was changed is placed on top of this sibling window.
.LP
The override_redirect member is set to the override-redirect attribute of the
window.
Window manager clients normally should ignore this window if the 
override_redirect member
is
.ZN True .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XAnyEvent(3X11),
XButtonEvent(3X11),
XCreateWindowEvent(3X11),
XCirculateEvent(3X11),
XCirculateRequestEvent(3X11),
XColormapEvent(3X11),
XConfigureRequestEvent(3X11),
XCrossingEvent(3X11),
XDestroyWindowEvent(3X11),
XErrorEvent(3X11),
XExposeEvent(3X11),
XFocusChangeEvent(3X11),
XGraphicsExposeEvent(3X11),
XGravityEvent(3X11),
XKeymapEvent(3X11),
XMapEvent(3X11),
XMapRequestEvent(3X11),
XPropertyEvent(3X11),
XReparentEvent(3X11),
XResizeRequestEvent(3X11),
XSelectionClearEvent(3X11),
XSelectionEvent(3X11),
XSelectionRequestEvent(3X11),
XUnmapEvent(3X11),
XVisibilityEvent(3X11)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
