.ds xL Programming With Xlib
.TH XDeviceBell 3X11 "Release 5" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XDeviceBell \- ring a bell on a device supported through the input extension
.SH SYNTAX
Status XDeviceBell\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIdevice\fP\^, \fIfeedbackclass\fP\^, \fIfeedbackid\fP\^, \fIpercent\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      XDevice *\fIdevice\fP\^; 
.br
      XID *\fIfeedbackclass\fP\^; 
.br
      XID *\fIfeedbackid\fP\^; 
.br
      int *\fIpercent\fP\^; 
.br
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 12
.I display
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.TP 12
.I device
Specifies the device with which the bell is associated.
.TP 12
.I feedbackclass
Specifies the class of the feedback with which the bell is associated.
.TP 12
.I feedbackid
Specifies the id of the feedback with which the bell is associated.
.TP 12
.I percent
Specifies the volume in the range -100 to 100 at which the bell should be rung.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIXDeviceBell\fP request causes the server to ring a bell on the 
specified feedback of the specified device, if possible.  
The specified volume is relative to the base volume for the bell.
If an invalid device is specified,
a \fIBadDevice\fP error will be returned.  The feedbackclass and feedbackid
parameters contain values returned by an \fIXGetFeedbackControl\fP request
and uniquely identify the bell to ring.  If a feedbackclass is specified that
does not support a bell, or if a nonexistent feedbackid is specified,
or a percent value is specified that is not in the range -100 to 100,
a \fIBadValue\fP error will be returned.
.P
The volume at which the bell is rung when the percent argument is 
nonnegative is:
.IP
base \- [(base * percent) / 100] + percent
.P
The volume at which the bell rings
when the percent argument is negative is:
.IP
base + [(base * percent) / 100]
.P
To change the base volume of the bell, use \fIXChangeFeedbackControl\fP.
.P
\fIXDeviceBell\fP can generate a \fIBadDevice\fP or a \fIBadValue\fP
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 12
\fIBadDevice\fP
An invalid device was specified.  The specified device does not exist, or has 
not been opened by this client via \fIXOpenInputDevice\fP.
.TP 12
\fIBadValue\fP
An invalid feedbackclass, feedbackid, or percent value was specified.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XChangeFeedbackControl(3X),
XBell(3X)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
