.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XSetWMClientMachine 3X11 "Release 5" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XSetWMClientMachine, XGetWMClientMachine \- set or read a window's WM_CLIENT_MACHINE property
.SH SYNTAX
void XSetWMClientMachine\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIw\fP, \fItext_prop\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIw\fP\^;
.br
      XTextProperty *\fItext_prop\fP\^;
.LP
Status XGetWMClientMachine\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIw\fP, \fItext_prop_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIw\fP\^;
.br
      XTextProperty *\fItext_prop_return\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: display.a,v 1.1 88/02/26 10:26:29 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fItext_prop\fP 1i
Specifies the
.ZN XTextProperty
structure to be used.
.IP \fItext_prop_return\fP 1i
Returns the
.ZN XTextProperty
structure.
.\" $Header: w.a,v 1.2 88/05/07 11:35:31 mento Exp $
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies the window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XSetWMClientMachine
convenience function calls
.ZN XSetTextProperty
to set the WM_CLIENT_MACHINE property.
.LP
The
.ZN XGetWMClientMachine
convenience function performs an 
.ZN XGetTextProperty 
on the WM_CLIENT_MACHINE property.
It returns nonzero status on success; otherwise it returns a zero status.
.SH PROPERTIES
.TP 1i
\s-1WM_CLIENT_MACHINE\s+1
The string name of the machine on which the client application is running.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XAllocClassHint(3X11),
XAllocIconSize(3X11),
XAllocSizeHints(3X11),
XAllocWMHints(3X11),
XSetCommand(3X11),
XSetTransientForHint(3X11),
XSetTextProperty(3X11),
XSetWMColormapWindows(3X11),
XSetWMIconName(3X11),
XSetWMName(3X11),
XSetWMProperties(3X11),
XSetWMProtocols(3X11),
XStringListToTextProperty(3X11)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
