.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtMake-Geometry-Request XtQuery-Geometry wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XtAppErrorMsg 3Xt "Release 3" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtAppErrorMsg, XtAppSetErrorMsgHandler, XtAppSetWarningMsgHandler, XtAppWarningMsg \- high-level error handlers
.SH SYNTAX
void XtAppErrorMsg(\fIapp_context\fP, \fIname\fP, \fItype\fP, \fIclass\fP, \
\fIdefault\fP, \ \fIparams\fP, \fInum_params\fP)
.br
    XtAppContext \fIapp_context\fP;
.br
    String \fIname\fP;
.br
    String \fItype\fP;
.br
    String \fIclass\fP;
.br
    String \fIdefault\fP;
.br
    String *\fIparams\fP;
.br
    Cardinal *\fInum_params\fP;
.LP
void XtAppSetErrorMsgHandler(\fIapp_context\fP, \fImsg_handler\fP)
.br
      XtAppContext \fIapp_context\fP;
.br
      XtErrorMsgHandler \fImsg_handler\fP;
.LP
void XtAppSetWarningMsgHandler(\fIapp_context\fP, \fImsg_handler\fP)
.br
      XtAppContext \fIapp_context\fP;
.br
      XtErrorMsgHandler \fImsg_handler\fP;
.LP
void XtAppWarningMsg(\fIapp_context\fP, \fIname\fP, \fItype\fP, \fIclass\fP, \fIdefault\fP, \fIparams\fP, \fInum_params\fP)
.br
    XtAppContext \fIapp_context\fP;
.br
    String \fIname\fP;
.br
    String \fItype\fP;
.br
    String \fIclass\fP;
.br
    String \fIdefault\fP;
.br
    String *\fIparams\fP;
.br
    Cardinal *\fInum_params\fP;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIapp_context\fP 1i
Specifies the application context.
.ds Cl
.IP \fIclass\fP 1i
Specifies the resource class\*(Cl.
.IP \fIdefault\fP 1i
Specifies the default message to use\*(Dm.
.IP \fIname\fP 1i
Specifies the general kind of error.
.IP \fItype\fP 1i
Specifies the detailed name of the error.
.ds Mh fatal error procedure, which should not return \
or the nonfatal error procedure, which usually returns
.IP \fImsg_handler\fP 1i
Specifies the new \*(Mh.
.IP \fInum_params\fP 1i
Specifies the number of values in the parameter list.
.IP \fIparams\fP 1i
Specifies a pointer to a list of values to be stored in the message.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.ZN XtAppErrorMsg
function calls the high-level error handler and passes the specified
information.
.LP
The
.ZN XtAppSetErrorMsgHandler
function registers the specified  procedure,
which is called when a fatal error occurs.
.LP
The
.ZN XtAppSetWarningMsgHandler
function registers the specified procedure,
which is called when a nonfatal error condition occurs.
.LP
The
.ZN XtAppWarningMsg
function calls the high-level error handler and passes the specified
information.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtAppGetErrorDatabase(3Xt),
XtAppError(3Xt)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
