.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XTranslateCoordinates 3X11 "Release 5" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XTranslateCoordinates \- translate window coordinates
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XTranCoords.f,v 1.2 88/04/05 14:44:04 mento Exp $
Bool XTranslateCoordinates\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIsrc_w\fP\^, \fIdest_w\fP\^, \fIsrc_x\fP\^, \fIsrc_y\fP\^, \fIdest_x_return\fP\^, 
.br
                            \fIdest_y_return\fP\^, \fIchild_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIsrc_w\fP\^, \fIdest_w\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIsrc_x\fP\^, \fIsrc_y\fP\^;
.br
      int *\fIdest_x_return\fP\^, *\fIdest_y_return\fP\^;
.br
      Window *\fIchild_return\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: child.a,v 1.1 88/02/26 10:05:43 mento Exp $
.IP \fIchild_return\fP 1i
Returns the child if the coordinates are contained in a mapped child of the
destination window.
.\" $Header: dw.a,v 1.2 88/05/07 13:20:18 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdest_w\fP 1i
Specifies the destination window.
.\" $Header: destxy.a,v 1.2 88/05/07 13:21:31 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdest_x_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIdest_y_return\fP 1i
Return the x and y coordinates within the destination window.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 1.1 88/02/26 10:26:29 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: sw.a,v 1.2 88/05/07 13:19:45 mento Exp $
.IP \fIsrc_w\fP 1i
Specifies the source window.
.\" $Header: srcxy1.a,v 1.1 88/02/26 10:31:23 mento Exp $
.IP \fIsrc_x\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIsrc_y\fP 1i
Specify the x and y coordinates within the source window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XTranCoords.d,v 1.5 88/08/17 08:32:02 mento Exp $
If
.ZN XTranslateCoordinates
returns
.ZN True ,
it takes the src_x and src_y coordinates relative
to the source window's origin and returns these coordinates to 
dest_x_return and dest_y_return
relative to the destination window's origin.
If
.ZN XTranslateCoordinates
returns 
.ZN False , 
src_w and dest_w are on different screens,
and dest_x_return and dest_y_return are zero.
If the coordinates are contained in a mapped child of dest_w,
that child is returned to child_return.
Otherwise, child_return is set to
.ZN None .
.LP
.ZN XTranslateCoordinates
can generate a
.ZN BadWindow 
error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badwindow.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:20 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.ZN BadWindow
A value for a Window argument does not name a defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fI\*(xL\fP
