.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xW Athena X Widgets \- C Language X Toolkit Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XUnmapEvent 3X11 "Release 5" "X Version 11" "XLIB FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XUnmapEvent \- UnmapNotify event structure
.SH STRUCTURES
The structure for
.ZN UnmapNotify
events contains:
.LP
.Ds 0
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
typedef struct {
	int type;	/* UnmapNotify */
	unsigned long serial;	/* # of last request processed by server */
	Bool send_event;	/* true if this came from a SendEvent request */
	Display *display;	/* Display the event was read from */
	Window event;
	Window window;
	Bool from_configure;
} XUnmapEvent;
.De
.LP
When you receive this event,
the structure members are set as follows.
.LP
The type member is set to the event type constant name that uniquely identifies
it.
For example, when the X server reports a
.ZN GraphicsExpose
event to a client application, it sends an
.ZN XGraphicsExposeEvent
structure with the type member set to
.ZN GraphicsExpose .
The display member is set to a pointer to the display the event was read on.
The send_event member is set to
.ZN True
if the event came from a
.ZN SendEvent
protocol request.
The serial member is set from the serial number reported in the protocol
but expanded from the 16-bit least-significant bits to a full 32-bit value.
The window member is set to the window that is most useful to toolkit
dispatchers.
.LP
The event member is set either to the unmapped window or to its parent,
depending on whether
.ZN StructureNotify
or
.ZN SubstructureNotify
was selected.
This is the window used by the X server to report the event.
The window member is set to the window that was unmapped.
The from_configure member is set to
.ZN True 
if the event was generated as a result of a resizing of the window's parent when
the window itself had a win_gravity of
.ZN UnmapGravity .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XAnyEvent(3X11),
XButtonEvent(3X11),
XCreateWindowEvent(3X11),
XCirculateEvent(3X11),
XCirculateRequestEvent(3X11),
XColormapEvent(3X11),
XConfigureEvent(3X11),
XConfigureRequestEvent(3X11),
XCrossingEvent(3X11),
XDestroyWindowEvent(3X11),
XErrorEvent(3X11),
XExposeEvent(3X11),
XFocusChangeEvent(3X11),
XGraphicsExposeEvent(3X11),
XGravityEvent(3X11),
XKeymapEvent(3X11),
XMapEvent(3X11),
XMapRequestEvent(3X11),
XPropertyEvent(3X11),
XReparentEvent(3X11),
XResizeRequestEvent(3X11),
XSelectionClearEvent(3X11),
XSelectionEvent(3X11),
XSelectionRequestEvent(3X11),
XVisibilityEvent(3X11)
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
