		-*- text -*-
How to get GNU Software by Internet FTP or by UUCP.  Last updated 21 Apr 93.

* Please send improvements to this file to gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu.

* No Warranties

We distribute software in the hope that it will be useful, but without
any warranty.  No author or distributor of this software accepts
responsibility to anyone for the consequences of using it or for
whether it serves any particular purpose or works at all, unless he
says so in writing.

* Updates

If you find this file in the Emacs distribution, there is a chance it
is out of date.  If you plan to FTP files from prep.ai.mit.edu, you
might as well start by FTPing the current version of this file, which
is `/pub/gnu/GNUinfo/FTP'.

* How to FTP

Use the ftp program on your system (ask locally if you can't find it)
to connect to the host you are ftping from.  Unless indicated
otherwise, login in as user "anonymous", with password: "your e-mail
address" and set "binary" mode (to transfer all eight bits in each
byte).

* FTPing GNU Software

** How to FTP GNU Emacs

If you are on the Internet (see also "** Alternative Internet FTP
Sources" below), you can at present copy the latest distribution
version of GNU Emacs from the file /pub/gnu/emacs-M.N.tar on host
prep.ai.mit.edu (or the file /pub/gnu/emacs-M.N.tar.gz which has been
run through gzip after tar).  M and N stand for version numbers; look
at a listing of the directory through ftp to see what version is
available.  These files are about 11 and 4 megabytes long,
respectively.  After you unpack the distribution, be sure to look at
the files README and INSTALL.

Because of difficulties in transferring large files, sometimes a split
version of the tar file is created.  This would be in a directory
named /pub/gnu/emacs-M.N.tar-split or perhaps
/pub/gnu/emacs-M.N.tar.gz-split, containing files of 100000 characters
each.  There is generally no trouble in ftping files of this size.
They can be combined with cat to make a tar file or compressed tar
file.  If you can't find such files on prep.ai.mit.edu, have a look at
archive.cis.ohio-state.edu.

ALWAYS USE BINARY/IMAGE MODE TO TRANSFER THESE FILES!
Text mode does not work for tar files or compressed files.

Some ftp'ers have found it necessary for successful file transfer:
   - to explicitly use prep.ai.mit.edu internet address:
18.71.0.38	(as of 11 April 89)

Files of differences from previous widely distributed GNU Emacs
versions to the present version are also available on prep.ai.mit.edu
under names of the form emacs.diff-OO.OO-NN.NN in directory /pub/gnu.
These are made with diff -rc2.  Sometimes there are versions
compressed with gzip of these difference files as well; their names
have .gz appended.

The Emacs manual in source form is included in the distribution.  The
dvi file produced by TeX is not included, but a copy may be available
for ftp under the name /pub/gnu/emacs.dvi.

The Emacs Lisp Reference Manual is in a separate file:
	/pub/gnu/elisp-manual-NN.tar.gz

** VMS FTP sites with GNU Emacs
You can anonymously ftp a VMS version of GNU emacs from:
	- ftp.stacken.kth.se:/pub/GNU-VMS/ - also has some other VMS
ports (and a few VMS binaries) of GNU software
	- addvax.llnl.gov
	- VMSD.OAC.UCI.EDU
	- RIGEL.EFD.LTH.SE [130.235.48.3]
	- ctrsci.cc.utah.edu - The 00readme.txt file gives details

** VMS FTP sites with GCC/G++
	- mango.rsmas.miami.edu has a VMS version of the GCC/G++ compiler.
Contact angel@flipper.miami.edu (angel li) for details.

** VMS sites with other GNU Software
	- cc.utah.edu [128.110.8.24], user anonymous, pass guest.  
The 00README.txt file gives details.

** Other GNU Software and How To FTP It

Other GNU software is available on prep.ai.mit.edu under directory
/pub/gnu.  diff files to convert between versions (like those used for
GNU Emacs), exist for some of these programs.  Some programs have misc
support files as well.  Have a look on prep to see which ones.
Compressed versions of the tar or diff files are often available
(indicated by a .gz suffix and made with the `gzip' program).  Some of
this software is in beta test (probably still buggy), and is being
made available for use by hackers who like to test software.

The file /pub/gnu/DESCRIPTIONS has a list of the packages distributed
on prep.ai.mit.edu with a brief description explaining what
each one can be used for.

More information about these programs can typically be found in the
GNU Bulletin.  To receive a copy, write to gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu.

** TeX and How to FTP It

We don't distribute TeX now, but it is free software.

You can get TeX sources via anonymous FTP from labrea.stanford.edu in
pub/tex.  The directory pub/tex/unix3.0 probably contains what you
want, but see pub/tex/README to be sure.  The most recent incarnation
of the LaTeX macros are in labrea:pub/tex/latex.  If you'd like to
support TUG and/or don't have access to the Internet, then write to
elisabet@max.acs.washington.edu about getting their tape distribution.

** Scheme and How to FTP It

The latest distribution version of C Scheme is available via anonymous FTP
from altdorf.ai.mit.edu in /archive/scheme-X.XX/ (where X.XX is some version
number).

Read the files INSTALL and README in the top level C Scheme directory.

** Alternative Internet FTP Sources

The administrators of louie.udel.edu maintains copies of GNU Emacs.
The files are available via anonymous ftp under directory ~ftp/gnu.

Emacs and other GNU programs may be available via anonymous ftp from
these US sites: ftp.kpc.com:/pub/mirror/gnu (Silicon Valley, CA)
ftp.hawaii.edu:/mirrors/gnu, f.ms.uky.edu:/pub3/gnu,
ftp.digex.net:/pub/gnu (Internet address 164.109.10.23, nightly full
mirror, ran by mcguire@digex.net), wuarchive.wustl.edu:/systems/gnu,
col.hp.com:/mirrors/gnu, ftp.cs.columbia.edu:/archives/gnu/prep,
vixen.cso.uiuc.edu:/gnu, mrcnext.cso.uiuc.edu:/pub/gnu,
jaguar.utah.edu:/gnustuff, gatekeeper.dec.com:/pub/GNU,
labrea.stanford.edu, ftp.cs.widener.edu, archive.cis.ohio-state.edu,
and ftp.uu.net:/archive/systems/gnu.  And these foreign sites:
ftp.cs.ubc.ca:/mirror2/gnu (Western Canada, daily full mirror, ran by
ftp-admin@cs.ubc.ca), ftp.unicamp.br:/pub/gnu (Brazil manual mirror,
ran by oliva@dcc.unicamp.br), archie.au:/gnu (Australia (archie.oz or
archie.oz.au for ACSnet)), ftp.technion.ac.il:/pub/unsupported/gnu
(Israel, daily full mirror, ran by ftp-admin), ftp.sun.ac.za:/pub/gnu
(South Africa), ftp.informatik.tu-muenchen.de,
ftp.informatik.rwth-aachen.de or germany.eu.net (mirror ran by
archive-admin@germany.eu.net) (Germany), isy.liu.se,
ftp.stacken.kth.se or ftp.luth.se:/pub/unix/gnu (Sweden),
ftp.sunet.se:/pub/gnu (Sweden 130.238.127.3 daily mirror, ran by
archive@ftp.sunet.se (also mirros the Mailing List Archives)
hp4nl.nluug.nl (Netherlands), ftp.win.tue.nl:/pub/gnu (Netherlands
131.155.70.100 daily mirror, ran by ftp@win.tue.nl),
ftp.funet.fi:/pub/gnu (Finland 128.214.6.100, ran by gnu-adm),
ftp.denet.dk (Denmark), ugle.unit.no (Norway 129.241.1.97),
ftp.eunet.ch or nic.switch.ch:/mirror/gnu (Switzerland),
irisa.irisa.fr:/pub/gnu or ftp.univ-lyon1.fr:pub/gnu (ran by
ftpmaint@ftp.univ-lyon1.fr) (France), archive.eu.net (Europe
192.16.202.1), cair.kaist.ac.kr:/pub/gnu (Korea 143.248.11.170),
ftp.nectec.or.th:/pub/mirrors/gnu (Thailand 192.150.251.32 daily
mirror, ran by ftp@nwg.nectec.or.th),
utsun.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp:/ftpsync/prep or ftp.cs.titech.ac.jp (Japan,
nemacs, the japanese port of GNU Emacs, is under ~ftp/JAPAN).  Please
do NOT use a site outside your country, until you have checked all
sites inside your country, and then your continent.  Trans-ocean
TCP/IP links are very expensive and usually very low speed.

* Getting GNU software in Great Britain

jpo@cs.nott.ac.uk is willing to distribute those GNU sources he has
available.  The smaller items are available from the info-server (send
to info-server@cs.nott.ac.uk) the larger items by negotiation.  Due to
communication costs this service is only available within the UK.

BattenIG@computer-science.birmingham.ac.uk (aka
I.G.Batten@fulcrum.bt.co.uk) is also willing to distribute those GNU
sources he has.  He can also write tapes in qic-21 and qic-24 formats.

lmjm@doc.ic.ac.uk is willing to distribute those GNU sources he has
along with comp.sources.unix, comp.sources.x, X windows et al.  The
archive, on src.doc.ic.ac.uk in directory /gnu, is available via ftp
over the Internet (on 146.169.3.7), niftp over janet (000005102000),
ftam over IXI and uucp.  Due to communication costs this service is
only available within the UK.  Mail to info-server@doc.ic.ac.uk for
details.  He can also write sun cartridge or exabyte tapes.

These UK sites have just anonymous FTP access: ftp.mcc.ac.uk
(130.88.203.12), unix.hensa.ac.uk:/pub/uunet/systems/gnu,
ftp.warwick.ac.uk (137.205.192.14 daily full mirror, maintained by
unixhelp@warwick.ac.uk).

* Getting GNU software via UUCP

OSU is distributing via UUCP: most GNU software, MIT C Scheme,
Compress, News, RN, NNTP, Patch, some Appletalk stuff, some of the
Internet Requests For Comment (RFC) et al..  See their periodic
postings on the Usenet newsgroup comp.sources.d for informational
updates.  Current details from <staff@cis.ohio-state.edu> or
<...!osu-cis!staff>.

Information on how to uucp some GNU programs is available via
electronic mail from: uunet!hutch!barber, hqda-ai!merlin, acornrc!bob,
hao!scicom!qetzal!upba!ugn!nepa!denny, ncar!noao!asuvax!hrc!dan,
bigtex!james (aka james@bigtex.cactus.org), oli-stl!root,
src@contrib.de (Germany), toku@dit.co.jp (Japan) and info@ftp.uu.net.

* If You Like The Software

If you like the software developed and distributed by the Free
Software Foundation, please express your satisfaction with a donation.
Your donations will help to support the Foundation and make our future
efforts successful, including a complete development and operating
system, called GNU (Gnu's Not Un*x), which will run Un*x user
programs.  For more information on GNU and the Foundation, contact us
at the above address.

Ordering a distribution tape from the Foundation is often a good
way to bring your company or university to make a donation.
