The actual order form follows the descriptions of media contents.

Please send suggestions for improvements to gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu or the postal
address at the end of the order form.  Thank You.

Most of this file is excerpted from the June 1994 GNU's Bulletin.

---------------------------------------------------------------------


FSF Order Form with Descriptions			June, 1994



Free Software Foundation, Inc.		      Telephone: +1-617-876-3296
675 Massachusetts Avenue		      FAX: +1-617-492-9057
Cambridge, MA	02139-3309		      FAX (in Japan):
USA						  0031-13-2473 (KDD)
Electronic mail: `gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu'		  0066-3382-0158 (IDC)


There are some sections (e.g. ``Forthcoming GNUs'') which are not in this
Order Form file.  If you wish to see them, ask gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu for the
complete June 1994 GNU's Bulletin.


Table of Contents
-----------------

	Donations Translate Into Free Software
	Cygnus Matches Donations!
	Free Software Redistributors Donate
	Help from Free Software Companies
	Major Changes in GNU Software and Documentation
	GNU Documentation
	GNU Software
	Program/Package Cross Reference
	Tapes
	   Languages Tape
	   Utilities Tape
	   Emacs Tape
	   Scheme Tape
	   X11 Tapes
	   Berkeley 4.4BSD--Lite Tape
	   VMS Emacs and VMS Compiler Tapes
	CD-ROMs
	   Pricing of the GNU CD-ROMs
	   May 1994 Source Code CD-ROM
	   November 1993 Source Code CD-ROM
	   Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM
	MS-DOS Diskettes
	   DJGPP Diskettes
	   Emacs Diskettes
	   Selected Utilities Diskettes
	   Windows Diskette
	Tape & CD-ROM Subscription Service
	The Deluxe Distribution
	FSF T-shirt
	Free Software Foundation Order Form



Donations Translate Into Free Software
**************************************

If you appreciate Emacs, GNU CC, Ghostscript, and other free software, you
may wish to help us make sure there is more in the future--remember,
*donations translate into more free software!*

Your donation to us is tax-deductible in the United States.  We gladly accept
*any* currency, although the U.S. dollar is the most convenient.

If your employer has a matching gifts program for charitable donations,
please arrange to have your donation matched by your employer (or, in some
cases, by Cygnus Support (see ``Cygnus Matches Donations!'').  If you do not
know, please ask your personnel department.  Also try and get the FSF listed
on the list of organizations for your company's matching gifts program.

	$500	 $250	  $100	   $50	   other $________

	Other currency:________

Circle the amount you are donating, cut out this form, and send it with your
donation to:

	Free Software Foundation
	675 Massachusetts Avenue
	Cambridge, MA	02139-3309
	USA

You can charge a donation to any of Visa, Mastercard, JCB, Diner's Club, or
Carte Blanche.	Charges may also be faxed to +1-617-492-9057; in Japan fax
to: 0031-13-2473 (KDD) or 0066-3382-0158 (IDC).


	Card type: __________________  Expiration Date: _____________

	Account Number: _____________________________________________

	Your Signature: _____________________________________________



Cygnus Matches Donations!
*************************

To encourage cash donations to the Free Software Foundation, Cygnus Support
will continue to contribute corporate funds to FSF to accompany gifts by its
employees, and by its customers and their employees.

Donations payable to the Free Software Foundation should be sent by eligible
persons to Cygnus Support, which will add its gifts and forward the total to
the FSF each quarter.  The FSF will provide the contributor with a receipt to
recognize the contribution (which is tax-deductible on U.S.  tax returns).
For more information, please contact Cygnus at `info@cygnus.com.'

	Cygnus Support
	1937 Landings Drive
	Mountain View, CA   94043
	USA

	Telephone: 415-903-1400
		   +1-800-Cygnus1
	Fax:	   415-903-0122
	Electronic-Mail: `info@cygnus.com'
	FTP: `ftp.cygnus.com'
	WWW: `http://www.cygnus.com/'



Free Software Redistributors Donate
***********************************

by Richard Stallman

Austin Code Works, a redistributor of free software, has agreed to support
free software development by giving the FSF 20% of the selling price for the
GNU software packages they produce and sell.

The Sun Users Group Deutschland has agreed to add a donation to the FSF to
the price of their next CD-ROM of GNU software.	 Potential purchasers will
know precisely how much is for the FSF and how much is for SUGD.

In the long run, the success of free software depends on how much new free
software people develop.  Free software distribution offers an opportunity to
raise funds for such development in an ethical way.  These two redistributors
have made use of the opportunity.  Many others let it go to waste.

You can help promote free software development by convincing for-a-fee
redistributors to contribute--either by doing development themselves, or by
donating to development organizations (the FSF and others).

The way to convince distributors to contribute is to demand and expect this
of them.  This means choosing among distributors partly by how much they give
to free software development.  Then you can show distributors they must
compete to be the one who gives the most.

To make this work, you must insist on numbers that you can compare, such as,
"We will give ten dollars to the Foobar project for each disk sold." A vague
commitment, such as "A portion of the profits are donated", doesn't give you
a basis for comparison.	 Even a precise fraction "of the profits from this
disk" is not very meaningful, since creative accounting and unrelated
business decisions can greatly alter what fraction of the sales price counts
as profit.

Also, press developers for firm information about what kind of development
they do or support.  Some kinds make much more long-term difference than
others.	 For example, maintaining a separate version of a GNU program
contributes very little; maintaining a program on behalf of the GNU project
contributes much.  Easy new ports contribute little, since someone else would
surely do them; difficult ports such as adding a new CPU to the GNU compiler
contribute more; major new features and programs contribute the most.

By establishing the idea that supporting further development is "the proper
thing to do" when distributing free software for a fee, we can assure a
steady flow of resources for making more free software.



Help from Free Software Companies
*********************************

When choosing a free software business, ask those you are considering how
much they do to assist free software development, e.g., by contributing money
to free software development or by writing free software improvements
themselves for general use.  By basing your decision partially on this
factor, you can help encourage those who profit from free software to
contribute to its growth.

These free software support companies regularly donate a part of their income
to the Free Software Foundation to support the development of new GNU
programs.  Listing them here is our way of thanking them.  Also see
``Cygnus Matches Donations!''.

	Contributed Software GbR
	Graefestr. 76
	D-10967 Berlin
	Germany

	Telephone: (+49-30) 694-69-07
	Fax:	   (+49-30) 694-68-09
	Electronic-Mail: `info@contrib.de'
	BBS & no-charge free software archive:
	   Dialins: (+49-30) 693-40-51 (eight USR DS's)
		    (+49-30) 694-60-55 (five ZyXELs)
	   Telnet:  `uropax.contrib.de' [192.109.39.2]
	FTP: `ftp.contrib.de'
	WWW: `http://www.contrib.de/'


	Hundred Acre Consulting
	5301 Longley Lane, Suite D-144
	Reno, NV   89511
	USA

	Telephone: 702-829-9700
		   +1-800-245-2885
	Fax:	   702-829-9926
	Electronic-Mail: `info@pooh.com'
	FTP: `ftp.pooh.com'
	WWW: `http://www.pooh.com/'
	Gopher: `gopher.pooh.com'



Major Changes in GNU Software and Documentation
***********************************************

We don't list version number changes in this section, just major changes
since January 1994.

   * FSF Now Distributing X11R6, as well as X11R5

     FSF updated the ``X11 Tapes'' and the ``May 1994 Source Code CD-ROM'' to
     the just-released X11R6.  This is the first major update since X11R5 was
     released in September, 1991.  We will distribute X11R5 on tape until
     X11R6 is stable, and on the ``November 1993 Source Code CD-ROM'',
     while supplies last.

   * 4.4BSD-Lite	 (Also see ``4.4BSD-Lite Tape''.)

     The FSF has begun distributing 4.4BSD-Lite and dropped the old Berkeley
     Networking 2 tape.	 The "Lite" refers to the omittance of some
     proprietary files that still remain in the full 4.4BSD distribution.
     However, 4.4BSD-Lite is considerably more complete than the previous
     Networking 2 release.

   * Common Lisp Freed!

     GNU Common Lisp (GCL) has been added.  Previously, GCL had distribution
     terms under which each user had to have a signed paper contract on file.
     However, the authors recently decided to switch to the GPL.  See ``GNU
     Software'', and ``Emacs Tape'', for more information.

   * Manual Updated since Last Bulletin

     The GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual has been updated.  The new edition
     includes bug fixes and additional information.  See ``GNU Documentation''.

   * New Program on the Languages Tape

     Octave has been added.  See ``GNU Software'' and ``Languages Tape'',
     for more information.

   * New Programs on the Utilities Tape

     `ed' has been added.  `elvis' has been replaced by `nvi'.	See ``GNU
     Software'' and ``Utilities Tape'', for more information.

   * New Programs on the Source Code CD-ROM

     This CD-ROM has all the new programs and changes on the tapes.  X11R6 has
     also replaced X11R5.  See ``Source Code CD-ROM'', for details.

   * Experimental Tape Takes a Recess

     We are not currently distributing the Experimental Tape because most of
     the programs that were on it are now stable.  GCC, GAS, Binutils, libg++,
     and the C Library are now on the ``Languages Tape'', replacing prior
     releases.	Oleo & GNU Graphics are now on the ``Utilities Tape''.

   * Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM

     We now have a CD-ROM that contains executables for the GNU compiler tools
     for some systems that don't normally come with a compiler.	 This allows
     users of those systems to compile GNU and other free software without
     having to buy a proprietary compiler.  See ``Compiler Tools Binaries
     CD-ROM'', for more details, including which platforms are supported.

     We hope to include more systems with each update of this CD-ROM.  If you
     can help build binaries for new systems, or have a system to suggest,
     please contact us at either address on the front cover.

   * Source CD-ROM Subscriptions

     We are now offering a subscription service for the Source Code CD-ROM in
     addition to our tape subscription service.	 For the price of 3 CD-ROMs
     (plus any shipping costs) you get the next 4 that we make.	 Presently we
     make two updates a year, but we may go to more frequent updates.  See
     ``Tape & CD-ROM Subscription Service''.

   * FSF Accepts Orders and Donations via Fax

     You can now send orders and donations to FSF by fax.  Please fax in a
     completed order form, including credit card information, since orders
     must be prepaid.  We do *not* accept purchase orders.  The number is
     +1-617-492-9057 in the U.S. and everywhere else except Japan.  In Japan,
     the fax numbers are toll-free: 0031-13-2473 (KDD) and
     0066-3382-0158 (IDC).

   * FSF T-shirts Improved!

     We have added a copy of the GNU General Public License to the back of our
     T-shirt, which used to be blank.  See ``FSF T-shirt''.



GNU Documentation
*****************

GNU is dedicated to having quality, easy-to-use online and printed
documentation.	GNU manuals are intended to explain the underlying concepts,
describe how to use all the features of each program, and give examples of
command use.  GNU manuals are distributed as Texinfo source files, which
yield both typeset hardcopy via the TeX document formatting system, and online
hypertext-like display via the menu-driven Info system.	 Source for these
manuals comes with our software, and they are available in hardcopy; see the
Free Software Foundation Order Form, in the centerfold.

Most GNU manuals are bound as soft cover books with "lay-flat" bindings.
This allows you to open them so they lie flat on a table without creasing the
binding.  Each book has an inner cloth spine and an outer cardboard cover
that will not break or crease as an ordinary paperback will.  Currently, the
`Emacs', `GDB', `Emacs Lisp Reference', `GAWK', `Make', `Flex', `Bison', and
`Texinfo' manuals have this binding.  The other GNU manuals are also bound so
they lie flat when opened, using a GBC binding.	 All of our manuals are 7in
by 9.25in except the `Calc' manual, which is 8.5in by 11in.

The edition number of the manual and version number of the program listed
after each manual's name were current at the time this Bulletin was published.

The `Emacs Manual' (9th Edition for Version 19) describes editing with GNU
Emacs.	It explains advanced features, including outline mode and regular
expression search, how to use special modes for programming in languages like
C++ and TeX, how to use the `tags' utility, how to compile and correct code,
how to make your own keybindings, and other elementary customizations.

`Debugging with GDB' (Edition 4.09 for Version 4.9) tells how to use the GNU
Debugger, run your program under debugger control, examine and alter data,
modify a program's flow of control, and use GDB through GNU Emacs.

The `GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual' (Edition 2.3 for Version 19.23) covers
this programming language in depth, including data types, control structures,
functions, macros, syntax tables, searching/matching, modes, windows,
keymaps, byte compilation, and the operating system interface.

The `GAWK Manual' (Edition 0.16 for Version 2.16) tells how to use the GNU
implementation of `awk'.  It is written for those who have never used `awk'
and describes the features of this powerful string and record manipulation
language.

The `Make Manual' (Edition 0.43 for Version 3.68) describes GNU `make', a
program used to rebuild parts of other programs.  The manual tells how to
write "makefiles", which specify how a program is to be compiled and how its
files depend on each other.  Included are an introductory chapter for novice
users and a section about automatically generated dependencies.

The `Flex Manual' (Edition 1.03 for Version 2.3.7) tells you how to write a
lexical scanner definition for the `flex' program to create a C++ or C-coded
scanner that will recognize the patterns described.  You need no prior
knowledge of scanner generators.

The `Bison Manual' (December 1993 Edition for Version 1.23) teaches you how
to write context-free grammars for the Bison program that convert into
C-coded parsers.  You need no prior knowledge of parser generators.

`Using and Porting GNU CC' (October 1993 Edition for Version 2.5) explains
how to run, install, and port the GNU C Compiler to new systems.  It
describes new features and incompatibilities of the compiler, but people not
familiar with C will also need a good reference on the C programming
language.  This manual also covers G++.

The `Texinfo Manual' (Edition 2.19 for Version 3) explains the markup
language used to generate both the online Info documentation and typeset
hardcopies.  It tells you how to make tables, lists, chapters, nodes,
indexes, cross references, how to use Texinfo mode in GNU Emacs, and how to
catch mistakes.	 This second edition describes over 50 new commands.

The `Termcap Manual' (2nd Edition for Version 1.2), often described as "twice
as much as you ever wanted to know about termcap," details the format of the
termcap database, the definitions of terminal capabilities, and the process
of interrogating a terminal description.  This manual is primarily for
programmers.

The `C Library Reference Manual' (June 1993 Edition for Version 1.07)
describes most of the facilities of the GNU C library, including both what
Unix calls "library functions" and "system calls."  We are doing limited
copier runs of this manual until it becomes more stable.  It is new, and
needs corrections and improvements.  Please send them to
`bug-glibc-manual@prep.ai.mit.edu'.

The `Emacs Calc Manual' (Edition 2.02 for Version 2.02) includes both a
tutorial and a reference manual for Calc.  It describes how to do ordinary
arithmetic, how to use Calc for algebra, calculus, and other forms of
mathematics, and how to extend Calc.



GNU Software
************

All our software is available via anonymous FTP; see ``How to Get GNU
Software''.  In addition we offer software on various media and printed
documentation:

   * see ``CD-ROMs''.

   * see ``Tapes''.

   * see ``MS-DOS Diskettes''.

   * see ``GNU Documentation'', including manuals and reference cards.

We welcome all bug reports sent to the appropriate electronic mailing list
(see ``Free Software Support'').

In the articles describing the contents of each medium, the version number
listed after each program name was current when we published this Bulletin.
When you order a distribution tape or diskette, some of the programs may be
newer, and therefore the version number higher.

Key to cross reference:


    BinCD
	  Binaries CD-ROM

    DjgppD
	  Djgpp Diskettes

    EmcsD
	  Emacs Diskettes

    EmcsT
	  Emacs Tape

    LangT
	  Language Tape

    LiteT
	  4.4BSD-Lite Tape

    SchmT
	  Scheme Tape

    SrcCD
	  Source CD-ROM

    UtilD
	  Selected Utilities Diskettes

    UtilT
	  Utilities Tape

    VMSCompT
	  VMS Compiler Tape

    VMSEmcsT
	  VMS Emacs Tape

    WdwsD
	  Windows Diskette

    X11OptT
	  X11 Optional Tape

    X11ReqT
	  X11 Required Tape

Configuring GNU Software:

We are using a uniform scheme for configuring GNU software packages in order
to compile them, which uses the `autoconf' program.  All GNU software
supports the same alternatives for naming machine and system types.  This
makes it possible to configure any and all GNU software in the same manner.

The configuration scheme also supports configuring a directory containing
several GNU packages with one command.	When the GNU system is complete it
will be possible to configure and build the entire system at once,
eliminating the need to separately configure each individual package.

The configuration scheme can also specify both the host and target system, so
you can easily configure and build cross-compilation tools.

GNU software currently available:

(For new features and coming programs, see ``Forthcoming GNUs''.)

   * `acm'	   (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `acm' is a LAN-oriented, multiplayer aerial combat simulation that runs
     under the MIT X Window System.  Players engage in air to air combat
     against one another using heat seeking missiles and cannons.  Eventually
     we hope to turn this into a more general purpose flight simulator.

   * Autoconf	      (SrcCD, UtilT)

     Autoconf produces shell scripts which automatically configure source code
     packages.	These scripts adapt the packages to many kinds of Unix-like
     systems without manual user intervention.	Autoconf creates a script for
     a package from a template file which lists the operating system features
     which the package can use, in the form of `m4' macro calls.  Autoconf
     requires GNU `m4' to operate, but the resulting configure scripts it
     generates do not.

     Most GNU programs now use Autoconf-generated configure scripts.

   * BASH	  (SrcCD, UtilT)

     The GNU shell, BASH (Bourne Again SHell), is compatible with the Unix
     `sh' and offers many extensions found in `csh' and `ksh'.	BASH has job
     control, `csh'-style command history, and command-line editing (with
     Emacs and `vi' modes built-in, and the ability to rebind keys) via the
     readline library.	BASH conforms to the POSIX 1003.2 shell specification.

   * `bc'	  (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `bc' is an interactive algebraic language with arbitrary precision.  GNU
     `bc' follows the POSIX 1003.2 draft standard, with several extensions
     including multi-character variable names, an `else' statement and full
     Boolean expressions.  GNU `bc' does not require the separate `dc'
     program.

   * BFD	 (BinCD, LangT, SrcCD)

     The Binary File Descriptor library allows a program which operates on
     object files (e.g. `ld' or GDB) to support many different formats in a
     clean way.	 BFD provides a portable interface, so that only BFD needs to
     know the details of a particular format.  One result is that all
     programs using BFD will support formats such as a.out, COFF, ELF &
     OSF-Rose.	BFD comes with source for Texinfo documentation (not yet
     published on paper).

     Presently BFD is not distributed separately because it is not yet
     completely stable; however, it is included with packages that use it.

   * Binutils	      (BinCD, LangT, SrcCD)

     Binutils includes the programs: `ar', `c++filt', `demangle', `gprof',
     `ld', `nlmconv', `nm', `objcopy', `objdump', `ranlib', `size', `strings',
     & `strip'.

     Binutils Version 2 is completely rewritten to use the BFD library.	 The
     GNU linker `ld' emits source-line numbered error messages for
     multiply-defined symbols and undefined references.	 It interprets a
     superset of the AT&T Linker Command Language, which gives general control
     over where segments are placed in memory.	`nlmconv' converts object
     files into Novell NetWare Loadable Modules.  The `objdump' program can
     disassemble code for a29k, ALPHA, H8/300, H8/500, HP-PA, i386, i960,
     m68k, m88k, MIPS, SH, SPARC, & Z8000 processors, and can display other
     data such as symbols and relocations from any file format understood by
     BFD.

   * Bison	   (BinCD, LangT, SrcCD, VMSCompT)

     Bison is an upwardly compatible replacement for the parser generator
     `yacc'.  Texinfo source for the `Bison Manual' and reference card are
     included.	See ``GNU Documentation''.

   * GNU C Library	   (LangT, SrcCD)

     The GNU C library supports ANSI C-1989 and POSIX 1003.1-1990 and has most
     of the functions specified in POSIX 1003.2-1992.  It is upwardly
     compatible with 4.4BSD and includes many System V functions, plus GNU
     extensions.

     The C Library will perform many functions of the Unix system calls in
     the Hurd.	Mike Haertel has written a fast `malloc' which wastes less
     memory than the old GNU version.  The GNU regular-expression functions
     (regex) now nearly conform to the POSIX 1003.2 standard.

     GNU `stdio' lets you define new kinds of streams, just by writing a few
     C functions.  The `fmemopen' function uses this to open a stream on a
     string, which can grow as necessary.  You can define your own `printf'
     formats to use a C function you have written.  For example, you can
     safely use format strings from user input to implement a `printf'-like
     function for another programming language.	 Extended `getopt' functions
     are already used to parse options, including long options, in many GNU
     utilities.

     Version 1.08 has just been released, adding support for Sun RPC, `mmap'
     and friends, and compatibility with several more traditional Unix
     functions.	 It runs on Sun-3 (SunOS 4.1), Sun-4 (SunOS 4.1 or Solaris 2),
     HP 9000/300 (4.3BSD), SONY News 800 (NewsOS 3 or 4), MIPS DECstation
     (Ultrix 4), DEC Alpha (OSF/1), i386/i486 (System V, SVR4, BSD, SCO 3.2 &
     SCO ODT 2.0), Sequent Symmetry i386 (Dynix 3) & SGI (Irix 4).  Texinfo
     source for the `GNU C Library Reference Manual' is included (see
     ``GNU Documentation''.); the manual still needs updating.

   * GNU C++ Library	     (BinCD, LangT, SrcCD)

     The GNU C++ library (libg++) is an extensive collection of C++ `forest'
     classes, a new IOStream library for input/output routines, and support
     tools for use with G++.  Among the classes supported are Obstacks,
     multiple-precision Integers and Rationals, Complex numbers, arbitrary
     length Strings, BitSets and BitStrings.  There is also a set of
     pseudo-generic prototype files for generating common container classes.
     Texinfo source for partial documentation is included (not yet published
     on paper).

   * Calc	  (EmcsT, SrcCD)

     Calc (written by Dave Gillespie in Emacs Lisp) is an extensible, advanced
     desk calculator and mathematical tool that runs as part of GNU Emacs.  If
     you wish, you can use Calc just as a simple four-function calculator, but
     it provides additional features including choice of algebraic or RPN
     (stack-based) entry, logarithmic functions, trigonometric and financial
     functions, arbitrary precision, complex numbers, vectors, matrices,
     dates, times, infinities, sets, algebraic simplification,
     differentiation, and integration.	It also outputs to `gnuplot'.  Calc
     comes with Texinfo source for a reference card and the `Calc Manual',
     which serves as a tutorial and reference.	See ``GNU Documentation''.

   * GNU Chess	       (SrcCD, UtilT)

     GNU Chess lets the computer play a full game of chess with you.  It runs
     on most platforms and has dumb terminal, "curses", and X terminal
     interfaces.

     GNU Chess implements many specialized features including the null move
     heuristic, a hash table with aging, the history heuristic (another form
     of the earlier killer heuristic), caching of static evaluations, and a
     database which lets it play the first several moves in the game quickly.

     Recent improvements include better heuristics, faster evaluation,
     thinking on opponent's time, Swedish and German language support, support
     for more book formats, a rudimentary Bobby Fischer clock, and bug fixes.

     GNU Chess is primarily supported by Stuart Cracraft, Mike McGann, Chua
     Kong Sian, and Tim Mann on behalf of the FSF.

	Stuart Cracraft
	25682 Cresta Loma
	Laguna Niguel, CA	 92677
	USA

	Telephone: +1-714-347-8107
	Electronic-Mail: `cracraft@ai.mit.edu'

   * CLISP	   (EmcsT, SrcCD)

     CLISP is a Common Lisp implementation (CLtL1 + parts of CLtL2) by Bruno
     Haible and Michael Stoll.	It mostly supports the Lisp described by
     `Common LISP: The Language (1st edition)'.	 CLISP includes an
     interpreter, a byte-compiler, a subset of CLOS and, for some machines, a
     screen editor.  It has user interfaces in English & German (& French
     soon), chooseable at compile time.	 Major packages that run in CLISP
     include PCL and, on Unix machines, CLX & Garnet.  CLISP needs only 1.5
     MB of memory and runs on many microcomputers (including the Atari ST,
     Amiga 500-4000, most MS-DOS systems & OS/2) & some Unix workstations
     (Linux, Sun4, Sun386, HP9000/800, SGI, Sun3 and others).

   * GNU Common Lisp	     (EmcsT, SrcCD)

     GNU Common Lisp (GCL) has a compiler and interpreter for Common Lisp.
     It is very portable and extremely efficient on a wide class of
     applications.  It compares favorably in performance with commercial Lisps
     on several large theorem prover and symbolic algebra systems.  It
     supports the CLtL1 specification but is moving towards the proposed ANSI
     definition.  It is based on AKCL and KCL.	KCL was written by Taiichi
     Yuasa and Masami Hagiya in 1984, and AKCL has been developed by William
     Schelter since 1987.

     GCL compiles to C and then uses the native optimizing C compilers (e.g.
     GCC).  A function with a fixed number of args and one value turns into a
     C function of the same number of args and returning 1 value, so it cannot
     really be any more efficient on such calls.  It has a conservative GC
     which allows great freedom for the C compiler to put Lisp values in
     arbitrary registers.  It has a source level Lisp debugger for
     interpreted code, with display of source code in the other Emacs window.
     It has profiling tools based on the C profiling tools, which count
     function calls and percentage of time.  CLX works with GCL.  There is an
     Xlib interface via C.  PCL worked with earlier versions.  See
     ``Forthcoming GNUs'', for plans for about GCL.

     GCL version 1.0 is being released under the GNU Library General Public
     License.  (FTP `/pub/gnu/gcl.README' on `prep.ai.mit.edu'.)  Get source
     from `ftp.cli.com'.  For details ask `schelter@math.utexas.edu'.

   * `cpio'	    (SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     `cpio' is an alternative archive program with all the features of SVR4
     `cpio', including support for the final POSIX 1003.1 `ustar' standard.
     `mt', a program to position magnetic tapes, is included with `cpio'.

   * CVS	 (SrcCD, UtilT)

     CVS, the Concurrent Version System, manages software revision and release
     control in a multi-developer, multi-directory, multi-group environment.
     It works best in conjunction with RCS versions 4 and above, but will
     parse older RCS formats with the loss of CVS's fancier features.  See
     Berliner, Brian, "CVS-II: Parallelizing Software Development,"
     `Proceedings of the Winter 1990 USENIX Association Conference'.  To find
     out how to get a copy of this report, ask `office@usenix.org'.

   * `dc'	  (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `dc' is an RPN calculator.	 GNU `bc' does not require a separate `dc'
     program to run.  This version of `dc' will eventually be merged with GNU
     `bc'.

   * DejaGnu	     (LangT, SrcCD)

     DejaGnu is a framework for testing other programs that provides a single
     front end for all tests.  The framework's flexibility and consistency
     make it easy to write tests for any program.  DejaGnu comes with
     `expect', which runs scripts to conduct dialogs with programs; and Tcl,
     which is an embeddable scripting language.	 The FSF hopes to replace Tcl
     with a cleaner programming language someday.

   * Demacs, GNU Emacs for MS-DOS	  (EmcsD)

     Manabu Higashida and Hirano Satoshi have released Demacs, a GNU Emacs
     port for 386/486 based MS-DOS machines.  It is compatible with XMS
     memory managers and VCPI, but not yet with Microsoft Windows extended
     mode or other DPMI managers.  Anonymous FTP it from `oak.oakland.edu' in
     `/pub/msdos/demacs' (USA) & `utsun.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp' in `/GNU/demacs'
     (Japan).  For an FTP site list and the current status of Demacs, email to
     `demacs@sigmath.osaka-u.ac.jp'.  For details, FTP the `README' file.

     The FSF is offering Demacs on diskette.  We will replace it with GNU
     Emacs 19, as soon as the MS-DOS port is ready.  See ``Emacs Diskettes''.

   * Diffutils	       (SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     GNU `diff' compares files showing line-by-line changes in several
     flexible formats.	It is much faster than traditional Unix versions.  The
     Diffutils package contains `diff', `diff3', `sdiff', and `cmp'.

     These improvements have recently been made to Diffutils: A new heuristic
     for `diff' greatly reduces the time needed to compare large input files
     that contain many differences, and produces output that is usually
     smaller rather than larger.  New `diff' options give detailed control
     over output format, e.g. to provide if-then-else output for programming
     languages other than C. Message wordings and the definition of "white
     space" have been revised for compatibility with the POSIX.2 standard
     (ISO/IEC 9945-2:1993).

   * DJGPP	   (BinCD, DjgppD)

     DJ Delorie has ported GCC/G++ 2.5.7 (see the GCC item in this section) to
     the i386 MS-DOS platform.	The DJGPP package also contains a 32-bit 80386
     DOS extender with symbolic debugger; development libraries; and ports of
     Bison, `flex', GAS, and the GNU Binutils.	Full source code is provided.
     It requires at least 5MB of hard disk space to install and 512K of RAM to
     use.  It supports SVGA (up to 1024x768), XMS & VDISK memory allocation,
     `himem.sys', VCPI (e.g. QEMM, DESQview, & 386MAX), and DPMI (e.g. Windows
     3.x, OS/2, QEMM, & QDPMI).	 The FSF offers it on the ``DJGPP Diskettes'',
     and on the ``Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM''.  Or FTP file
     `/pub/msdos/djgpp' from `oak.oakland.edu' (or another SimTel mirror
     site).  Ask `djgpp-request@sun.soe.clarkson.edu' to join a mailing list
     for DJGPP users.

   * `dld'	   (LangT, SrcCD)

     `dld' is a dynamic linker written by W. Wilson Ho.	 Linking your program
     with the `dld' library allows you to dynamically load object files into
     the running binary.  Currently supported are VAX (Ultrix), Sun 3 (SunOS
     3.4 & 4.0), SPARC (SunOS 4.0), Sequent Symmetry (Dynix), & Atari ST.

   * `doschk'	      (SrcCD, UtilT)

     This program is intended as a utility to help software developers ensure
     that their source file names are distinguishable on System V platforms
     with 14-character filenames and on MS-DOS with 8+3 character filenames.

   * `ecc'	   (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `ecc' is a Reed-Solomon error correction checking program, which can
     correct three byte errors in a block of 255 bytes and detect more severe
     errors.  Contact `paulf@Stanford.EDU' for more information.

   * `ed'	  (SrcCD, UtilT)

     Ed is the standard text editor.

   * Elib	  (EmcsT, SrcCD)

     This is a small library of Emacs Lisp functions, including routines for
     using AVL trees and doubly-linked lists.

   * GNU Emacs

     In 1975, Richard Stallman developed the first Emacs, an extensible,
     customizable real-time display editor.  GNU Emacs is his second
     implementation.  It offers true Lisp--smoothly integrated into the
     editor--for writing extensions, and provides an interface to the MIT X
     Window System.  In addition to its powerful native command set,
     extensions which emulate other popular editors are distributed: vi, EDT
     (DEC's VMS editor) and Gosling (aka Unipress) Emacs.  It has many other
     features which make it a full computing support environment.  Source for
     the `GNU Emacs Manual', the `GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual', and a
     reference card come with the software.  See ``GNU Documentation''.

   * GNU Emacs 18	  (EmcsD, EmcsT, SrcCD, VMSEmcsT)

     GNU Emacs 18.59 runs on many Unix systems.	 In hardware order: Alliant
     FX/80 & FX/2800, Altos 3068, Amdahl (UTS), Apollo, AT&T (3Bs & 7300 PC),
     DG Aviion, Bull DPX/2 (2nn & 3nn) CCI 5/32 & 6/32, Celerity, Convex,
     Digital (DECstation 3100 & 5000 (PMAXes), Mips, VAX (BSD, SysV & VMS)),
     Motorola Delta 147 & 187 Dual, Elxsi 6400, Encore (DPC, APC & XPC),
     Gould, HP (9000 series 200, 300, 700 & 800, but not 500), HLH Orion
     (original & 1/05), IBM (RS/6000 (AIX), RT/PC (4.2 & AIX) & PS/2 (AIX (386
     only))), ISI (Optimum V, 80386), Intel 860 & 80386 (BSD, Esix, SVR3,
     SVR4, SCO, ISC, IX, AIX & others (see ``MS-DOS Diskettes''. & ``Free
     Software for Microcomputers'')), Iris (2500, 2500 Turbo & 4D), Masscomp,
     MIPS, National Semiconductor 32000, NeXT (Mach), NCR Tower 32 (SVR2 &
     SVR3), Nixdorf Targon 31, Nu (TI & LMI), pfa50, Plexus, Prime EXL,
     Pyramid (original & MIPS), Sequent (Balance & Symmetry), SONY News (m68k
     & MIPS), Stride (system release 2), all Suns including 386i (all SunOS &
     some Solaris vers.), Tadpole, Tahoe, Tandem Integrity S2, Tektronix
     (16000 & 4300), Triton 88, Ustation E30 (SS5E), Whitechapel (MG1) &
     Wicat.

     In operating system order: AIX (RS/6000, RT/PC, 386-PS/2), BSD (vers.
     4.1, 4.2, 4.3), DomainOS, Esix (386), HP-UX (HP 9000 series 200, 300,
     700, 800 but not 500), ISC (386), IX (386), Mach, Microport, NewsOS
     (Sony m68k & MIPS) SCO (386), SVR0 (Vax, AT&T 3Bs), SVR2, SVR3, SVR4,
     Solaris 2.0, SunOS, UTS (Amdahl), Ultrix (vers. 3.0, 4,1), Uniplus 5.2
     (Dual machines), VMS (vers. 4.0, 4.2, 4.4, 5.5) & Xenix (386).

   * GNU Emacs 19	  (EmcsT, SrcCD)

     New features in Emacs 19 include: multiple X windows ("frames" to
     Emacs), with either a separate X window for the minibuffer or a
     minibuffer attached to each X window; property lists associated with
     regions of text in a buffer; multiple fonts and colors defined by those
     properties; simplified and improved processing of function keys, mouse
     clicks and mouse movement; X selection processing, including clipboard
     selections; hooks to be run if point or mouse moves outside a certain
     range; menu bars and popup menus defined by keymaps; scrollbars; before
     and after change hooks; source-level debugging of Emacs Lisp programs;
     European character sets support; floating point numbers; improved buffer
     allocation, using a new mechanism capable of returning storage to the
     system when a buffer is killed; interfacing with the X resource manager;
     GNU configuration scheme support; good RCS support; & many updated
     libraries.

     New features in Emacs 19.23 include X toolkit support, dialog boxes,
     operation on MS-DOS, much faster text properties, keyboard equivalents
     shown automatically in menus, and text that highlights when you move the
     mouse over it.

     Unlike some other recent derivations of Emacs, Emacs 19 from the Free
     Software Foundation continues to work on character-only terminals as
     well as under the MIT X Window System.

     Emacs 19.23 is known to work on, in hardware order: Bull DPX/2 2nn & 3nn
     (SVR3) & sps7 (SVR2); Clipper; Cubix QBx (SysV); Data General Aviion
     (DGUX); DEC MIPS (Ultrix 4.2 & OSF/1, not VMS); Elxsi 6400 (SysV); Gould
     Power Node & NP1 (4.2 & 4.3BSD); Harris Night Hawk 1200 and 3000, 4000
     and 5000 (cxux); Honeywell XPS100 (SysV); HP 9000 series 200, 300, 700,
     800 (4.3BSD or HP-UX 7, 8, 9); Intel i386 & i486 (386BSD, AIX, BSDI/386,
     FreeBSD, Esix, ISC, Linux, MS-DOS, NetBSD, SCO3.2v4 with ODT, SysV,
     Xenix); IBM RS6000 (AIX 3.2); IBM RT/PC (AIX or BSD); Motorola Delta 147
     & 187 (SVR3, SVR4, & m88kbcs); National Semiconductor 32K (Genix); NeXT
     (BSD or Mach 2 w/ NeXTStep 3.0); Prime EXL (SysV); Pyramid (BSD);
     Sequent Symmetry (BSD); SGI Iris 4D (Irix 4.x & 5.x); Sony News/RISC
     (NewsOS); Sun 3 & 4, SPARC 1, 1+, 2, 10 & Classic (SunOS 4.0, 4.1,
     Solaris 2.0-2.3); Tadpole 68k (SysV); Tektronix XD88 (SVR3) & 4300
     (BSD); & Titan P2 & P3 (SysV).

     In operating system order: AIX (i386, RS6000, RT/PC); 4.1, 4.2, 4.3BSD
     (i386, Gould Power Node & NP1, HP9000 series 300, NeXT, Pyramid,
     Symmetry, Tektronix 4300, RT/PC); DG/UX (Aviion); Esix (i386); FreeBSD
     (i386); Genix (ns32k); HP-UX 7, 8, 9 (HP 9000 series 200, 300, 700, 800,
     but not 500); Irix 4 & 5 (Iris 4D); ISC (i386); Linux (i386); NetBSD
     (i386, HP9000 series 300); Mach 2 & 3 (i386, NeXT); SCO 3.2v4 (i386);
     SVR2 (Bull sps7); SVR3 (Bull DPX/2 2nn & 3nn, Motorola Delta 147 & 187,
     Tektronix XD88); SVR4 (Motorola Delta 147 & 187); Solaris 2 (SPARC 1,
     1+, 2, 10, Classic); SunOS 4.0, 4.1 (Sun 3 & 4, SPARC 1, 1+, 2, 10 &
     Classic); Ultrix 4.2 (DEC MIPS); & Xenix (i386).

     Other configurations supported by Emacs 18 should work with few changes
     in Emacs 19; as users tell us more about their experiences with different
     systems, we will augment the list.	 Also see ``Forthcoming GNUs''.

   * `es'	  (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `es' is an extensible shell based on `rc' that has first class functions,
     lexical scope, an exception system, and rich return values (i.e.
     functions can return values other than just numbers).  Like `rc', it is
     great for both interactive use and for scripting, particularly because
     its quoting rules are much less baroque than the C or Bourne shells.

   * `f2c'	   (LangT, SrcCD)

     `f2c' converts Fortran-77 source files into C or C++, which can be
     compiled with GCC.	 You can get bug fixes via FTP from `netlib.att.com'
     in the file `/netlib/f2c/changes.Z' or by email from
     `netlib@research.att.com'.	 See ``Forthcoming GNUs'', for information
     about GNU Fortran.

   * NetFax	    (SrcCD, UtilT)

     NetFax is a freely-available fax spooling system originally developed in
     the MIT AI Lab.  It provides Group 3 fax transmission and reception
     services for a networked Unix system.  It requires a faxmodem which
     accepts Class 2 fax commands.  Contact `bug-fax@prep.ai.mit.edu' for
     more information.

   * Fileutils	       (SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     The fileutils work on files: `chgrp', `chmod', `chown', `cp', `dd', `df',
     `dir', `du', `install', `ln', `ls', `mkdir', `mkfifo', `mknod', `mv',
     `mvdir', `rm', `rmdir', `touch', & `vdir'.	 Only some of these are on the
     ``Selected Utilities Diskettes''.

   * `find'	    (SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     `find' is frequently used both interactively and in shell scripts to
     find files which match certain criteria and perform arbitrary operations
     on them.  Also included are `xargs', which applies a command to a list
     of files, and `locate', which scans a database for file names that match
     a pattern.

   * Finger	    (SrcCD, UtilT)

     GNU Finger has more features than other finger programs.  For sites with
     many hosts, a single host may be designated as the finger "server" host.
     This host collects information about who is logged in to other hosts at
     that site.	 If a user at site A wants to know about users logged on at
     site B, a single query to any machine at the site will return complete
     information.

   * `flex'	    (LangT, SrcCD, UtilD)

     `flex' is a replacement for the `lex' scanner generator.  `flex' was
     written by Vern Paxson of the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and generates
     far more efficient scanners than `lex' does.  Texinfo source for the
     `Flex Manual' and reference card are included.  See ``GNU Documentation''.

   * Fontutils	       (SrcCD, UtilT)

     The fontutils create fonts for use with Ghostscript or TeX, starting
     with a scanned type image and converting the bitmaps to outlines.	They
     also contain general conversion programs and other utilities.

     Fontutils programs include: `bpltobzr', `bzrto', `charspace',
     `fontconvert', `gsrenderfont', `imageto', `imgrotate', `limn', and
     `xbfe'.

   * GAS	 (BinCD, LangT, SrcCD)

     GAS is the GNU assembler.	Native assembly works for many systems,
     including: Sun 3, 4, & SPARC (SunOS 4.1 or Solaris 2); i386 (AIX,
     386BSD, BSDI/386, Linux, SCO, Unixware); m68k (BSD, HP-UX, Convergent
     Technologies SysV); MIPS (Ultrix, Irix); Hitachi H8/300 and H8/500; &
     VAX (BSD, Ultrix, VMS).  Cross assembling can be done for most of the
     above systems, plus: i386 (SCO, go32 MS-DOS/DJGPP); ebmon29k; Hitachi
     H8/300; i960 (b.out, COFF); MIPS ECOFF (Ultrix, Iris, MIPS Magnum);
     Nindy 960; vxworks (68k or 960); & Zilog Z8000.  See ``Forthcoming
     GNUs'', for plans for future releases of GAS.

   * GAWK	  (LangT, SrcCD)

     GAWK is upwardly compatible with the System V Release 4 and POSIX
     versions of `awk'.	 It also provides several useful extensions not found
     in other `awk' implementations.  Texinfo source for the `GAWK Manual'
     comes with the software.  See ``GNU Documentation''.

   * GCC	 (BinCD, DjgppD, LangT, SrcCD, VMSCompT)

     Version 2 of the GNU C Compiler supports three languages: C, C++ and
     Objective-C; the source file name suffix or a compiler option selects the
     language.	The front end support for Objective-C was donated by NeXT.
     The runtime support needed to run Objective-C programs is now
     distributed with GCC (this does not include any Objective-C classes
     aside from `object').  As much as possible, G++ is kept compatible with
     the evolving draft ANSI standard, but not with `cfront' (AT&T's
     compiler), which has been diverging from ANSI.

     The GNU C Compiler is a fairly portable optimizing compiler which
     performs automatic register allocation, common sub-expression
     elimination, invariant code motion from loops, induction variable
     optimizations, constant propagation and copy propagation, delayed
     popping of function call arguments, tail recursion elimination,
     integration of inline functions and frame pointer elimination,
     instruction scheduling, loop unrolling, filling of delay slots, leaf
     function optimization, optimized multiplication by constants, a certain
     amount of common subexpression elimination (CSE) between basic blocks
     (though not all of the supported machine descriptions provide for
     scheduling or delay slots), a feature for assigning attributes to
     instructions, and many local optimizations that are automatically
     deduced from the machine description.  Function-wide CSE has been
     written, but needs to be cleaned up before it can be installed.
     Position-independent code is supported on the 68k, i386, Hitachi Slt,
     Hitachi H8/300, Clipper, 88k, SPARC & SPARClite.

     GCC can open-code most arithmetic on 64-bit values (type `long long
     int').  It supports extended floating point (type `long double') on the
     68k; other machines will follow.

     GCC supports full ANSI C, traditional C and GNU C extensions.  GNU C has
     been extended to support nested functions, nonlocal gotos, and taking the
     address of a label.

     GCC can generate a.out, COFF, ELF & OSF-Rose files when used with a
     suitable assembler.  It can produce debugging information in these
     formats: BSD stabs, COFF, ECOFF, ECOFF with stabs & DWARF.

     GCC generates code for many CPUs, including: a29k, Alpha, ARM, Convex cN,
     Clipper, Elxsi, H8300, HP-PA (1.0 and 1.1) i370, i386, i486, i860, i960,
     m68k, m68020, m88k, MIPS, ns32k, Pyramid, ROMP, RS6000, SH, SPARC,
     SPARClite, VAX, and we32k.

     Operating systems supported include: AIX, ACIS, AOS, BSD, Clix, Ctix,
     DG/UX, Dynix, Genix, HP-UX, ISC, Irix, Linux, Luna, LynxOS, Mach, Minix,
     NewsOS, OSF, OSF-Rose, RISCOS, SCO, Solaris 2, SunOS 4, SysV, Ultrix,
     Unos, & VMS.

     The old (version 1) machine descriptions for the Alliant, Tahoe and Spur
     (as well as a new port for the Tron) do not work, but are still included
     in the distribution in case someone wants to work on them.

     Using the configuration scheme for GCC, building a cross-compiler is as
     easy as building a compiler for the same target machine.  Version 2
     supports more general calling conventions: it can pass arguments "by
     reference" and can preallocate the space for stack arguments.  GCC 2 on
     the SPARC uses the SPARC conventions for structure arguments and return
     values.

     We no longer distribute or maintain version 1 of GCC, G++, or libg++.

     Texinfo source for the GCC manual, `Using and Porting GNU CC', is
     included with the compiler.

     See ``Forthcoming GNUs'', for plans for later releases of GCC.

   * GDB	 (BinCD, LangT, SrcCD)

     In GDB, object files and symbol tables are now read via the BFD library,
     which allows a single copy of GDB to debug programs of multiple object
     file formats such as a.out and COFF.  Other new features include command
     language improvements, remote debugging over serial lines or TCP/IP, and
     watchpoints (breakpoints triggered when the value of an expression
     changes).	Exception handling, SunOS shared libraries and C++ multiple
     inheritance are only supported when used with GCC version 2.

     GDB comes with a command line user interface; GNU Emacs is distributed
     with a GDB mode, and `xxgdb' provides an X interface (but it is not
     distributed or maintained by the FSF; it is available for anonymous FTP
     from `ftp.x.org' in the `/contrib' directory).

     GDB uses a standard remote interface to a simulator library which (so
     far) has simulators for the Zilog Z8001/2, Hitachi H8/300, H8/500 &
     Super-H.

     GDB can perform cross-debugging.  To say that GDB *targets* a platform
     means that it can perform native or cross-debugging for it.  To say that
     GDB can *host* a given platform means that it can be built on it, but
     cannot necessarily debug native programs.	GDB can:

	* *target* & *host*: DEC Alpha (OSF/1), Amiga 3000 (Amix), DECstation
	  3100 & 5000 (Ultrix), HP 9000/300 (BSD), IBM RS/6000 (AIX), i386
	  (BSD, SCO, Linux, LynxOS), Motorola Delta m88k (System V), NCR 3000
	  (SVR4), SGI Iris (MIPS running Irix V3 & V4), SONY News (NewsOS
	  3.x), Sun-3 & SPARC (SunOS 4.1, Solaris 2.0) & Ultracomputer (29K
	  running Sym1).

	* *target*, but not *host*: i960 Nindy, AMD 29000 (COFF & a.out),
	  Fujitsu SPARClite, Hitachi H8/300, m68k & m68332.

	* *host*, but not *target*: Intel 386 (Mach), IBM RT/PC (AIX) &
	  HP/Apollo 68k (BSD).

     GDB can use the symbol tables emitted by the compilers supplied by most
     vendors of MIPS-based machines, including DEC.  (These tables are in a
     format which almost nobody else uses.)  Texinfo source for the manual
     `Debugging with GDB' and a reference card are included.  See
     ``GNU Documentation''.

   * `gdbm'	    (LangT, SrcCD, UtilD)

     The `gdbm' library is the GNU replacement for the traditional `dbm' and
     `ndbm' libraries.	It implements a database using quick lookup by
     hashing.  `gdbm' does not need sparse file formats (unlike its Unix
     counterparts).

   * Ghostscript	 (SrcCD, UtilT)

     Ghostscript is GNU's graphics language which is almost fully compatible
     with Postscript (see ``Forthcoming GNUs'').

     The current version of Ghostscript is 2.6.1.  Features include the
     ability to use the fonts provided by the platform on which Ghostscript
     runs (MIT X Window System and Microsoft Windows), resulting in much
     better-looking screen displays; improved text file printing (like
     `enscript'); a utility to extract the text from a Postscript document; a
     much more reliable (and faster) Microsoft Windows implementation;
     support for Microsoft C/C++ 7.0; drivers for many new printers,
     including the SPARCprinter, and for TIFF/F (fax) file format; many more
     Postscript Level 2 facilities, including most of the color space
     facilities (but not patterns), and the ability to switch between Level 1
     and Level 2 dynamically.

     Ghostscript accepts commands in Postscript and executes them by writing
     directly to a printer, drawing on an X window, or writing to a file that
     you can print later (or to a bitmap file that you can manipulate with
     other graphics programs).

     Ghostscript includes a C-callable graphics library (for client programs
     that do not want to deal with the Postscript language).  It also supports
     IBM PCs and compatibles with EGA, VGA, or SuperVGA graphics (but please
     do *not* ask the FSF staff any questions about this; we do not use PCs).

     See ``Forthcoming GNUs'', for plans for later releases of Ghostscript.

   * Ghostview	       (SrcCD, UtilT)

     Tim Theisen, `ghostview@cs.wisc.edu', has created Ghostview, a previewer
     for multi-page files that runs on top of Ghostscript.  Ghostview provides
     an X11 user interface for the Ghostscript interpreter.  Ghostview and
     Ghostscript function as two cooperating programs; Ghostview creates a
     viewing window and Ghostscript draws in it.  There is a port for
     Ghostview to MS-Windows called "GSview for Windows".  For information
     about future releases of this program, see ``Forthcoming GNUs''.

   * `gmp'	   (LangT, SrcCD)

     GNU mp is a library for arbitrary precision arithmetic on signed integers
     and rational numbers.  It has a rich set of functions with a regular
     interface.

     See ``Forthcoming GNUs'', for the plans for later releases of `gmp'.

   * GNATS	   (SrcCD, UtilT)

     GNATS (GNats: A Tracking System, not to be confused with GNAT, The GNU
     Ada Translator) is a bug-tracking system.	It is based upon the paradigm
     of a central site or organization which receives problem reports and
     negotiates their resolution by electronic mail.  Although it has been
     used primarily as a software bug-tracking system so far, it is
     sufficiently generalized so that it could be used for handling system
     administration issues, project management or any number of other
     applications.

   * `gnuplot'	       (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `gnuplot' is an interactive program for plotting mathematical
     expressions and data.  It handles both curves (2 dimensions) and surfaces
     (3 dimensions).  Curiously, the program was neither written nor named for
     the GNU Project; the name is a coincidence.

   * GnuGo	   (SrcCD, UtilT)

     GnuGo plays the game of Go (Wei-Chi); it is not yet very sophisticated.

   * `gperf'	     (LangT, SrcCD)

     `gperf' is a "perfect" hash-table generation utility.  There are
     actually two implementations of `gperf', one written in C and one in
     C++.  Both will produce hash functions in either C or C++.

   * GNU Graphics	  (SrcCD, UtilT)

     GNU Graphics is a set of programs which produce plots from ASCII or
     binary data.  It supports output to Tektronix 4010, Postscript & the MIT
     X Window System or compatible devices.  Features include support for
     output in ln03 and TekniCAD TDA file formats; a replacement for the
     `spline' program; examples of shell scripts using `graph' and `plot'; & a
     statistics toolkit.

     Existing ports need retesting.  Contact Rich Murphey, `Rich@rice.edu',
     if you can help test/port it to anything beyond a SPARCstation.

   * grep	  (SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     This package contains GNU `grep', `egrep', and `fgrep'.  They are much
     faster than the traditional Unix versions.

   * Groff	   (SrcCD, UtilT)

     Groff is a document formatting system, which includes drivers for
     Postscript, TeX `dvi' format, and typewriter-like devices, as well as
     implementations of `eqn', `nroff', `pic', `refer', `tbl', `troff', and
     the `man', `ms', and `mm' macros.	Groff's `mm' macro package is almost
     compatible with the DWB `mm' macros and has several extensions.  Also
     included is a modified version of the Berkeley `me' macros and an
     enhanced version of the X11 `xditview' previewer.	Written in C++, these
     programs can be compiled with GNU C++ Version 2.5 or later.

     Groff users are encouraged to contribute enhancements.  Most needed are
     complete Texinfo documentation, a `grap' emulation (a `pic' preprocessor
     for typesetting graphs), a page-makeup postprocessor similar to `pm'
     (see `Computing Systems', Vol. 2, No. 2; ask `office@usenix.org' for
     information on obtaining a copy) and an ASCII output class for `pic' so
     that `pic' can be integrated with Texinfo.	 Questions and bug reports
     from users who have read the documentation that is provided with the
     distribution can be sent to `bug-groff@prep.ai.mit.edu'.

   * `gzip'	    (DjgppD, EmcsT, LangT, SrcCD, UtilT)

     Some of the contents of our tape and FTP distributions are compressed.
     We have software on our tapes and FTP sites to uncompress these files.
     Due to patent troubles with `compress', we have switched to another
     compression program, `gzip'.  `gzip' can expand LZW-compressed files but
     uses a different algorithm for compression which generally produces
     better results.  It also uncompresses files compressed with System V's
     `pack' program.

   * `hello'	     (SrcCD, UtilT)

     The GNU `hello' program produces a familiar, friendly greeting.  It
     allows non-programmers to use a classic computer science tool which would
     otherwise be unavailable to them.	Because it is protected by the GNU
     General Public License, users are free to share and change it.

     Like any truly useful program, `hello' provides a built-in mail reader.

   * `hp2xx'	     (SrcCD, UtilT)

     GNU `hp2xx' reads HP-GL files, decomposes all drawing commands into
     elementary vectors, and converts them into a variety of vector and raster
     output formats.  It is also an HP-GL previewer.  Currently supported
     vector formats include encapsulated Postscript, Uniplex RGIP, Metafont
     and various special TeX-related formats, and simplified HP-GL (line
     drawing only) for imports.	 Raster formats supported include IMG, PBM,
     PCX, & HP-PCL (including Deskjet & DJ5xxC support).  Previewers work
     under X11 (Unix), OS/2 (PM & full screen), MS-DOS (SVGA, VGA, & HGC).

   * `indent'	      (SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     GNU `indent' is a revision of the BSD version.  By default, it formats C
     source according to the GNU coding standards.  The BSD default, K&R and
     other formats are available as options.  It is also possible to define
     your own format.  GNU `indent' is more robust and provides more
     functionality than other versions, e.g., it handles C++ comments.

   * Ispell	    (SrcCD, UtilT)

     Ispell is an interactive spell checker that suggests "near misses" as
     replacements for unrecognized words.  System and user-maintained
     dictionaries can be used.	Standalone and GNU Emacs interfaces are
     available.

   * JACAL	   *Not available from the FSF*

     JACAL is a symbolic mathematics system for the manipulation and
     simplification of equations and single and multiple-valued algebraic
     expressions constructed of numbers, variables, radicals, and algebraic
     functions, differential operators and holonomic functions.	 In addition,
     vectors, matrices, and tensors of the above objects are included.

     JACAL was written in Scheme by Aubrey Jaffer.  It comes with SCM, an IEEE
     P1178 and R4RS compliant version of Scheme written in C.  SCM runs on
     Amiga, Atari-ST, MS-DOS, OS/2, NOS/VE, Unicos, VMS, Unix, and similar
     systems.  SLIB is a portable Scheme library used by JACAL.	 Get JACAL,
     SLIB and SCM sources via anonymous FTP from either `ftp.maths.tcd.ie' in
     `/pub/bosullvn/jacal', `altdorf.ai.mit.edu' in `/archive/scm', or
     `prep.ai.mit.edu' in `/pub/gnu/jacal'.

     The FSF is not distributing JACAL on any media.  To receive an IBM PC
     floppy disk with the source and executable files, send $99.00 to:

	Aubrey Jaffer
	84 Pleasant Street
	Wakefield, MA	01880
	USA

   * `m4'	  (SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     GNU `m4' is an implementation of the traditional Unix macro processor.
     It is mostly SVR4 compatible, although it has some extensions (for
     example, handling more than 9 positional parameters to macros).  `m4'
     also has built-in functions for including files, running shell commands,
     doing arithmetic, etc.

   * `make'	    (BinCD, EmcsT, LangT, SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     GNU `make' supports POSIX 1003.2 and has all but a few obscure features
     of the BSD and System V versions of `make', as well as many of our own
     extensions.  GNU extensions include long options, parallel compilation,
     flexible implicit pattern rules, conditional execution and powerful text
     manipulation functions.  Recent versions have improved error reporting
     and added support for the popular `+=' syntax to append more text to a
     variable's definition.  Texinfo source for the `Make Manual' comes with
     the program.  See ``GNU Documentation''.

     GNU `make' is on several of our tapes because some system vendors supply
     no `make' utility at all, and some native `make' programs lack the
     `VPATH' feature essential for using the GNU configure system to its full
     extent.  The GNU `make' sources have a shell script to build `make'
     itself on such systems.

   * MandelSpawn	 (SrcCD, UtilT)

     A parallel Mandelbrot generation program for the MIT X Window System.

   * mtools	    (SrcCD, UtilT)

     mtools is a set of public domain programs to allow Unix systems to read,
     write and manipulate files on an MS-DOS file system (usually a diskette).

   * MULE	  (SrcCD)

     MULE is a MULtilingual Enhancement to GNU Emacs 18.  It can handle many
     character sets at once including Japanese, Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese,
     Thai, Greek, the ISO Latin-1 through Latin-5 character sets, Ukrainian,
     Russian, and other Cyrillic alphabets.  A text buffer in MULE can
     contain a mixture of characters from these languages.  To input any of
     these characters, you can use various input methods provided by MULE
     itself.  In addition, if you use MULE under some terminal emulators
     (kterm, cxterm, or exterm), you can use its input methods.	 See ``GNU
     and Other Free Software in Japan'', for more information about MULE.

   * NetHack	     (SrcCD, UtilT)

     NetHack is a display-oriented adventure game similar to Rogue.  Both
     ASCII and X displays are supported.

   * NIH Class Library	       (LangT, SrcCD)

     The NIH Class Library (formerly known as "OOPS", Object-Oriented Program
     Support) is a portable collection of C++ classes, similar to those in
     Smalltalk-80, which has been developed by Keith Gorlen of the National
     Institutes of Health (NIH), using the C++ programming language.

   * `nvi'	   (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `nvi' is a free implementation of the `vi'/`ex' Unix editor.  It has
     most of the functionality of the original `vi'/`ex', except "open" mode
     & the `lisp' option, which will be added.	Enhancements over `vi'/`ex'
     include split screens with multiple buffers, ability to handle 8-bit
     data, infinite file & line lengths, tag stacks, infinite undo & extended
     regular expressions.  It runs under BSD, Linux, NetBSD, FreeBSD, BSDI,
     AIX, HP-UX, DGUX, IRIX, PSF, PTX, Solaris, SunOS, Ultrix, Unixware &
     should port easily to many other systems.

   * Octave	    (LangT, SrcCD)

     Octave is a high-level language that is primarily intended for numerical
     computations.  It provides a convenient command line interface for
     solving linear and nonlinear problems numerically.

     Octave does arithmetic for real and complex scalars and matrices, solve
     sets of nonlinear algebraic equations, integrate functions over finite
     and infinite intervals, and integrate systems of ordinary differential
     and differential-algebraic equations.  Send queries and bug reports to:
     `bug-octave@che.utexas.edu'.

     Octave is available via anonymous ftp from `ftp.che.utexas.edu' in the
     directory `/pub/octave'.  The files are in gzipped `tar' format (see the
     file `/pub/gnu/README' on `prep.ai.mit.edu').  Source is included for a
     150+ page Texinfo manual, which is not yet published by the FSF.

   * Oleo	  (SrcCD, UtilT)

     Oleo is a spreadsheet program (better for you than the more expensive
     spreadsheets).  It supports the MIT X Window System and character-based
     terminals, and can output Embedded Postscript renditions of spreadsheets.
     Keybindings should be familiar to Emacs users and are configurable.
     Under X and in Postscript output, Oleo supports multiple, variable width
     fonts.  See ``Forthcoming GNUs'', for the plans for later releases of
     Oleo.

   * `p2c'	   (LangT, SrcCD)

     `p2c' is a Pascal-to-C translator written by Dave Gillespie.  It
     recognizes many Pascal dialects including Turbo, HP, VAX, and ISO, and
     produces readable, maintainable, portable C.

   * `patch'	     (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `patch' is our version of Larry Wall's program to take `diff''s output
     and apply those differences to an original file to generate the modified
     version.

   * PCL	 (EmcsT, SrcCD)

     PCL is a free implementation of a large subset of CLOS, the Common Lisp
     Object System.  It runs under CLISP, mentioned above.

   * `perl'	    (LangT, SrcCD)

     Larry Wall's `perl' combines the features and capabilities of `sed',
     `awk', `sh' and C, as well as interfaces to all the system calls and
     many C library routines.  A perl mode for editing `perl' code comes with
     GNU Emacs 19.

   * `ptx'	   (SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     GNU `ptx' is the GNU version of the traditional permuted index
     generator.	 It can handle multiple input files at once, produce TeX
     compatible output, and produce readable "KWIC" (KeyWords In Context)
     indexes without needing to use `nroff'.  This version does not handle
     input files that do not fit in memory all at once.

   * `rc'	  (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `rc' is a shell that features a C-like syntax (much more so than `csh')
     and far cleaner quoting rules than the C or Bourne shells.	 It's
     intended to be used interactively, but is also great for writing
     scripts.  It inspired the shell `es'.

   * RCS	 (SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     The Revision Control System, RCS, is used for version control and
     management of software projects.  When used with GNU `diff', RCS can
     handle binary files (executables, object files, 8-bit data, etc).	Also
     see the item about CVS in this article.

   * `recode'	      (SrcCD, UtilT)

     GNU `recode' converts files between character sets and usages.  When
     exact transliterations are not possible, it may get rid of the offending
     characters or fall back on approximations.	 This program recognizes or
     produces nearly 150 different character sets and is able to
     transliterate files between almost any pair.  Most RFC 1345 character
     sets are supported.

   * regex	   (LangT, SrcCD)

     The GNU regular expression library supports POSIX.2, except for
     internationalization features.  In the past, it has been included in many
     GNU programs which use regex routines.  Now it is finally available
     separately.  A faster version of this library comes with `sed'.

   * Scheme	    (SchmT)

     For information about Scheme, see ``Scheme Tape''.

   * `screen'	      (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `screen' is a terminal multiplexer that runs several separate "screens"
     (ttys) on a single physical character-based terminal.  Each virtual
     terminal emulates a DEC VT100 plus several ANSI X3.64 and ISO 2022
     functions.	 `screen' sessions can be detached and resumed later on a
     different terminal type.

   * `sed'	   (SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     `sed' is a stream-oriented version of `ed'.  It is used copiously in
     shell scripts.  GNU `sed' comes with the rx library, which is a faster
     version of regex (see ``Forthcoming GNUs'').

   * Shellutils		(SrcCD, UtilT)

     Use shellutils interactively or in shell scripts: `basename', `date',
     `dirname', `echo', `env', `expr', `false', `groups', `id', `nice',
     `nohup', `printenv', `printf', `sleep', `stty', `su', `tee', `test',
     `true', `tty', `uname', `who', `whoami', and `yes'.

   * GNU Shogi	       (SrcCD, UtilT)

     Shogi is a Japanese game similar to Chess; a major difference is that
     captured pieces can be returned into play.

     GNU Shogi has been created by modifying GNU Chess; GNU Shogi implements
     the same features as GNU Chess and uses similar heuristics.  As a new
     feature, sequences of partial board patterns can be introduced in order
     to help the program play a good order of moves towards specific opening
     patterns.	There are both character and X display interfaces.

     GNU Shogi is primarily supported by Matthias Mutz on behalf of the FSF.

	Matthias Mutz
	Universitaet Passau, FMI
	94030 Passau
	Germany

	Electronic-mail: `mutz@fmi.uni-passau.de'

   * Smalltalk	       (LangT, SrcCD)

     GNU Smalltalk is an interpreted object-oriented programming language
     system written in highly portable C.  It has been successfully ported to
     many Unix and some other platforms, including DOS (but these non-Unix
     ports are not available from the FSF).  Current features include a
     binary image save capability, the ability to invoke user-written C code
     and pass parameters to it, a GNU Emacs editing mode, a version of the X
     protocol invocable from Smalltalk, optional byte-code compilation
     tracing and byte-code execution tracing, and automatically loaded
     per-user initialization files.  It implements all of the classes and
     protocol in the Smalltalk-80 book "Smalltalk-80: The Language", except
     for the graphic user interface (`GUI') related classes.

     See ``Forthcoming GNUs'', for plans for later releases of Smalltalk.

   * Superopt	      (LangT, SrcCD)

     Superopt is a function sequence generator that uses an exhaustive
     generate-and-test approach to find the shortest instruction sequence for
     a given function.	You provide the GNU superoptimizer, `gso', a
     function, a CPU to generate code for, and how many instructions you can
     accept.  Its application in GCC is described in the `ACM SIGPLAN
     PLDI'92' proceedings.  Superopt supports: SPARC, m68k, m68020, m88k, IBM
     RS/6000, AMD 29000, Intel 80x86, Pyramid, DEC Alpha, & HP-PA.

   * `tar'	   (SrcCD, UtilT)

     GNU `tar' includes multivolume support, the ability to archive sparse
     files, automatic archive compression/decompression, remote archives and
     special features that allow `tar' to be used for incremental and full
     backups.  Unfortunately, GNU `tar' implements an early draft of the
     POSIX 1003.1 `ustar' standard which is different from the final
     standard.	Adding support for the new changes in a backward-compatible
     fashion is not trivial.

   * Termcap Library	     (SrcCD, UtilT)

     The GNU Termcap library is a drop-in replacement for `libtermcap.a' on
     any system.  It does not place an arbitrary limit on the size of Termcap
     entries, unlike most other Termcap libraries.  Included is source for the
     `Termcap Manual' in Texinfo format.  See ``GNU Documentation''.

   * TeX	 (SrcCD)

     TeX is a document formatting system that handles complicated
     typesetting, including mathematics.  It is GNU's standard text formatter.

     You can obtain TeX from the University of Washington, which maintains and
     supports a tape distribution of TeX for Unix systems.  The core material
     consists of Karl Berry's `web2c' TeX package, the sources for which are
     available via anonymous ftp; retrieval instructions are in
     `pub/tex/FTP.nwc' on `ftp.cs.umb.edu'.  If you receive any installation
     support from the University of Washington, please consider sending them
     a donation.

     To order a full distribution written in `tar' on either a 1/4inch
     4-track QIC-24 cartridge or a 4mm DAT cartridge, send $210.00 to:

	Northwest Computing Support Center
	DR-10, Thomson Hall 35
	University of Washington
	Seattle, WA   98195
	USA

	Electronic-Mail: `unixtex@u.washington.edu'
	Telephone: +1-206-543-6259

     Please make checks payable to the University of Washington.  Checks must
     be in U.S. dollars, drawn on a U.S. bank.	Prepaid orders are preferred
     but purchase orders are acceptable; however, they carry an extra charge
     of $10.00 to pay for invoice processing.  Overseas sites: please add to
     the base cost $20.00 for shipment via air parcel post, or $30.00 for
     shipment via courier.  Please check with the above for current prices
     and formats.

   * Texinfo	     (EmcsT, LangT, SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     Texinfo is a set of utilities which generate both printed manuals and
     online hypertext-style documentation (called "Info").  There are also
     programs for reading online Info documents.  Version 3 has both GNU Emacs
     Lisp and standalone programs written in C or shell script.	 Texinfo mode
     for GNU Emacs enables easy editing and updating of Texinfo files.
     Programs provided include `makeinfo', `info', `texi2dvi', `texindex',
     `tex2patch', and `fixfonts'.  Source for the `Texinfo Manual' is
     included.	See ``GNU Documentation''.

   * Textutils	       (SrcCD, UtilT)

     The Textutils programs manipulate textual data.  They include: `cat',
     `cksum', `comm', `csplit', `cut', `expand', `fold', `head', `join', `nl',
     `od', `paste', `pr', `sort', `split', `sum', `tac', `tail', `tr',
     `unexpand', `uniq', and `wc'.

   * Tile Forth		(LangT, SrcCD)

     Tile Forth is a 32-bit implementation of the Forth-83 standard written in
     C, allowing it to be easily moved between different computers.
     (Traditionally, Forth implementations are written in assembler to use
     the underlying hardware as optimally as possible, but this also makes
     them less portable.)

   * `time'	    (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `time' is used to report statistics (usually from a shell) about the
     amount of user, system and real time used by a process.  On some systems
     it also reports memory usage, page faults, and other statistics.

   * `tput'	    (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `tput' is a portable way for shell scripts to use special terminal
     capabilities.  Our `tput' uses the Termcap database, instead of Terminfo
     as most others do.

   * UUCP	  (SrcCD, UtilT)

     This version of UUCP was written by Ian Lance Taylor, and is GNU's
     standard UUCP system.  It supports the `f', `g' and `v' (in all window
     and packet sizes), `G', `t', `e', Zmodem and two new bidirectional (`i'
     and `j') protocols.  If you have a Berkeley sockets library, it can make
     TCP connections.  If you have TLI libraries, it can make TLI
     connections.  Source is included for a Texinfo manual, which is not yet
     published by the FSF.

   * `uuencode' and `uudecode'	       (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `uuencode' and `uudecode' are used to transmit binary files over
     transmission mediums that support only simple ASCII data.

   * `wdiff'	     (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `wdiff' is a front-end to GNU `diff'.  It compares two files, finding
     which words have been deleted or added to the first in order to create
     the second.  It has many output formats and interacts well with
     terminals and pagers.  `wdiff' is particularly useful when two texts
     differ only by a few words and paragraphs have been refilled.



Program/Package Cross Reference
*******************************

Here is a list of what package each GNU program or library is in.  Programs
on the two X11 tapes and the 4.4BSD-Lite tapes are not included, due to lack
of space in this Bulletin.  You can anonymous FTP a full list from
`prep.ai.mit.edu' in the file `/pub/gnu/ProgramIndex'.

	a2p perl
	acm acm
	acms acm
	addftinfo Groff
	afm2tfm TeX
	ar Binutils
	autoconf Autoconf
	autoheader Autoconf

	b2m Emacs
	basename Shellutils
	bash BASH
	bc bc
	bdftops Ghostscript
	bibtex TeX
	bison Bison
	bms MandelSpawn
	bpltobzr Fontutils
	build ispell
	bzrto Fontutils

	c++ GCC
	c++filt Binutils
	c2ph perl
	cat Textutils
	cbars wdiff
	cc GCC
	cc1 GCC
	cc1obj GCC
	cc1plus GCC
	cccp GCC
	charspace Fontutils
	chgrp Fileutils
	chmod Fileutils
	chown Fileutils
	ci RCS
	cksum Textutils
	clisp CLISP
	cmail xboard
	cmmf TeX
	cmp Diffutils
	co RCS
	comm Textutils
	cp Fileutils
	cpio cpio
	cpp GCC
	cppstdin perl
	csplit Textutils
	ctags Emacs
	cu UUCP
	cut Textutils
	cvs CVS
	cvscheck CVS
	cvtmail Emacs

	d Fileutils
	date Shellutils
	dc dc
	dd Fileutils
	delatex TeX
	demangle Binutils
	descend CVS
	detex TeX
	df Fileutils
	diff Diffutils
	diff3 Diffutils
	digest-doc Emacs
	dir Fileutils
	dirname Shellutils
	dld dld
	doschk doschk
	du Fileutils
	dvi2tty TeX
	dvicopy TeX
	dvips TeX
	dvitype TeX

	ecc ecc
	echo Shellutils
	ed ed
	edit-pr GNATS
	egrep grep
	emacs Emacs
	emacsclient Emacs
	emacsserver Emacs
	emacstool Emacs
	env Shellutils
	eqn Groff
	es es
	esdebug es
	etags Emacs
	ex nvi
	expand Textutils
	expect DejaGnu
	expr Shellutils

	f2c f2c
	fakemail Emacs
	false Shellutils
	fax NetFax
	faxenq NetFax
	faxmail NetFax
	faxps NetFax
	faxq NetFax
	faxrm NetFax
	faxsend NetFax
	faxspooler NetFax
	fc f2c
	fgrep grep
	find find
	find2perl perl
	finger finger
	fingerd finger
	fixfonts Texinfo
	fixinc.svr4 GCC
	fixincludes GCC
	flex flex
	fold Textutils
	font2c Ghostscript
	fontconvert Fontutils
	forth Tile Forth
	forthicon Tile Forth
	forthtool Tile Forth
	freq ispell
	freqtbl ispell

	g++ GCC
	gas GAS
	gawk Gawk
	gcc GCC
	gdb GDB
	genclass libg++
	gftodvi TeX
	gftopk TeX
	gftype TeX
	ghostview Ghostview
	gnats GNATS
	gnuchess Chess
	gnuchessc Chess
	gnuchessn Chess
	gnuchessr Chess
	gnuchessx Chess
	gnupdisp Shogi
	gnuplot gnuplot
	gnuplot_x11 gnuplot
	gnushogi Shogi
	gnushogir Shogi
	gnushogix Shogi
	go GnuGo
	gperf gperf
	gperf libg++
	gprof Binutils
	graph Graphics
	grep grep
	grodvi Groff
	groff Groff
	grops Groff
	grotty Groff
	groups Shellutils
	gs Ghostscript
	gsbj Ghostscript
	gsdj Ghostscript
	gslj Ghostscript
	gslp Ghostscript
	gsnd Ghostscript
	gsrenderfont Fontutils
	gunzip gzip
	gzexe gzip
	gzip gzip

	h2ph perl
	h2pl perl
	head Textutils
	hello hello
	hexl Emacs
	hp2xx hp2xx

	id Shellutils
	ident RCS
	imageto Fontutils
	imgrotate Fontutils
	indent indent
	indxbib Groff
	info Texinfo
	inimf TeX
	initex TeX
	install Fileutils
	ispell ispell

	join Textutils

	lasergnu gnuplot
	latex TeX
	ld Binutils
	less less
	lesskey less
	libbfd.a Binutils
	libbfd.a GAS
	libbfd.a GDB
	libbzr.a Fontutils
	libc.a C Library
	libcurses.a nvi
	libF77.a f2c
	libg++.a libg++
	libgdbm.a gdbm
	libgf.a Fontutils
	libgmp.a gmp
	libI77.a f2c
	libnihcl.a NIHCL
	libnihclmi.a NIHCL
	libnihclvec.a NIHCL
	liboctave.a Octave
	libpbm.a Fontutils
	libpk.a Fontutils
	libtcl.a DejaGnu
	libtermcap.a Termcap
	libtfm.a Fontutils
	libwidgets.a Fontutils
	limn Fontutils
	lkbib Groff
	ln Fileutils
	locate find
	look ispell
	lookbib Groff
	ls Fileutils

	m4 m4
	make Make
	make-docfile Emacs
	make-path Emacs
	makeindex TeX
	makeinfo Texinfo
	MakeTeXPK TeX
	man-macros Groff
	mattrib mtools
	mcd mtools
	mcopy mtools
	mdel mtools
	mdir mtools
	me-macros Groff
	merge RCS
	mf TeX
	mformat mtools
	mft TeX
	mkdir Fileutils
	mkfifo Fileutils
	mkmanifest mtools
	mkmodules CVS
	mknod Fileutils
	mlabel mtools
	mm-macros Groff
	mmd mtools
	movemail Emacs
	mrd mtools
	mread mtools
	mren mtools
	ms-macros Groff
	mslaved MandelSpawn
	mt cpio
	mtype mtools
	mv Fileutils
	mvdir Fileutils
	mwrite mtools

	nethack Nethack
	nice Shellutils
	nl Textutils
	nlmconv Binutils
	nm Binutils
	nohup Shellutils
	nroff Groff

	objc GCC
	objcopy Binutils
	objdump Binutils
	objective-c GCC
	octave Octave
	od Textutils
	oleo Oleo

	p2c p2c
	paste Textutils
	patch patch
	patgen TeX
	pathchk Shellutils
	perl perl
	pfbtops Groff
	pic Groff
	pktogf TeX
	pktype TeX
	plot2fig Graphics
	plot2plot Graphics
	plot2ps Graphics
	plot2tek Graphics
	pltotf TeX
	pooltype TeX
	pr Textutils
	pr-addr GNATS
	pr-edit GNATS
	printenv Shellutils
	printf Shellutils
	protoize GCC
	ps2ascii Ghostscript
	ps2epsi Ghostscript
	psbb Groff
	ptx ptx

	query-pr GNATS

	ranlib Binutils
	rc rc
	rcs RCS
	rcs-to-cvs CVS
	rcs2log Emacs
	rcsdiff RCS
	rcsfreeze RCS
	rcsmerge RCS
	recode recode
	refer Groff
	rlog RCS
	rm Fileutils
	rmdir Fileutils
	rmt cpio
	rmt tar
	runtest DejaGnu
	runtest.exp DejaGnu

	s2p perl
	sccs2rcs CVS
	screen screen
	sdiff Diffutils
	sed sed
	send-pr GNATS
	shogi Shogi
	size Binutils
	sleep Shellutils
	soelim Groff
	sort Textutils
	split Textutils
	strings Binutils
	strip Binutils
	stty Shellutils
	su Shellutils
	sum Textutils
	superopt Superopt

	tac Textutils
	tail Textutils
	taintperl perl
	tangle TeX
	tar tar
	tbl Groff
	tcp Emacs
	tee Shellutils
	tek2plot Graphics
	test Shellutils
	test-g++ DejaGnu
	test-tool DejaGnu
	tex TeX
	tex3patch Texinfo
	texi2dvi Texinfo
	texindex Texinfo
	texspell TeX
	tfmtodit Groff
	tftopl TeX
	tgrind TeX
	time time
	timer Emacs
	touch Fileutils
	tput tput
	tr Textutils
	troff Groff
	true Shellutils
	tty Shellutils

	uname Shellutils
	uncompress gzip
	unexpand Textutils
	uniq Textutils
	unprotoize GCC
	uuchk UUCP
	uucico UUCP
	uuconv UUCP
	uucp UUCP
	uudecode uuencode
	uudir UUCP
	uuencode uuencode
	uulog UUCP
	uuname UUCP
	uupick UUCP
	uurate UUCP
	uusched UUCP
	uustat UUCP
	uuto UUCP
	uux UUCP
	uuxqt UUCP

	v Fileutils
	vcdiff Emacs
	vdir Fileutils
	vftovp TeX
	vi nvi
	virmf TeX
	virtex TeX
	vptovf TeX

	wakeup Emacs
	wc Textutils
	wdiff wdiff
	weave TeX
	who Shellutils
	whoami Shellutils

	x2p perl
	xargs find
	xbfe Fontutils
	xboard xboard
	xditview Groff
	xdvi TeX
	xms MandelSpawn
	xplot Graphics
	xshogi xshogi

	yes Shellutils
	yow Emacs

	zcat gzip
	zcmp gzip
	zdiff gzip
	zforce gzip
	zgrep gzip
	zmore gzip
	znew gzip

	[ Shellutils



Tapes
*****

We offer Unix source code on tapes in `tar' format on these media:

   * 4mm DAT cartridges

   * 8mm Exabyte cartridges

   * Sun DC300XLP QIC-24 1/4in cartridges (readable on some other systems)

   * Hewlett-Packard 16-track DC600HC 1/4in cartridges

   * IBM RS/6000 QIC-150 1/4in cartridges (readable on some other systems)

   * 1600bpi 9-track 1/2in reel tape

The contents of the reel and various cartridge tapes for Unix systems are the
same (except for the RS/6000 Emacs tape, which also has executables for
Emacs); only the media are different.  For pricing information, see the Free
Software Foundation Order Form in the centerfold.  Source code for the
manuals is included, in Texinfo format.	 See ``GNU Documentation''.

Some of the files on the tapes may be compressed with `gzip' to make them
fit.  Refer to the top-level `README' file at the beginning of each tape for
instructions on uncompressing them.  `uncompress' and `unpack' *do not work*!



Languages Tape
--------------

This tape contains programming tools: compilers, interpreters, and related
programs (parsers, conversion programs, debuggers, etc.).

	* Binutils 2.3
	* Bison 1.22
	* C Library 1.08
	* DejaGnu 1.2
	* dld 3.2.3
	* ecc 1.2.1
	* f2c 1994.04.14
	* flex 2.4.6
	* GAS 2.2
	* Gawk 2.15.4
	* GCC 2.5.8 (includes G++ & Objective-C)
	* GDB 4.12
	* gdbm 1.7.1
	* gmp 1.3.2
	* gperf 2.1a
	* gzip 1.2.4
	* indent 1.9.1
	* libg++ 2.5.3
	* Make 3.71
	* NIH Class Library 3.0
	* Octave 1.0
	* p2c 1.20
	* perl 4.036
	* regex 0.12
	* Smalltalk 1.1.1
	* Superopt 2.3
	* Texinfo 3.1
	* Tile Forth 2.1



Utilities Tape
--------------

This tape consists mostly of smaller utilities and miscellaneous applications.

	* acm 4.5
	* Autoconf 1.10
	* BASH 1.13.5
	* bc 1.02
	* Chess 4.0.69
	* cpio 2.3
	* CVS 1.3
	* dc 0.2
	* Diffutils 2.6
	* doschk 1.1
	* ed 0.1
	* es 0.84
	* Fileutils 3.9
	* find 3.8
	* finger 1.37
	* Fontutils 0.6
	* Ghostscript 2.6.1
	* Ghostview 1.5
	* Ghostview for Windows 1.0
	* GNATS 3.2
	* GnuGo 1.1
	* gnuplot 3.5
	* Graphics 0.17
	* grep 2.0 (with egrep and fgrep)
	* Groff 1.09
	* gzip 1.2.4
	* hello 1.3
	* hp2xx 3.1.4
	* Ispell 4.0
	* m4 1.1
	* Make 3.71
	* MandelSpawn 0.07
	* mtools 2.0.7
	* NetFax 3.2.1
	* Nethack 3.1.3
	* nvi 1.11
	* Oleo 1.5
	* patch 2.1
	* ptx 0.3
	* rc 1.4
	* RCS 5.6.0.1
	* recode 3.3
	* screen 3.5.2
	* sed 1.18
	* sed 2.05
	* Shellutils 1.9.4
	* Shogi 1.1.02
	* tar 1.11.2
	* Termcap 1.2
	* Texinfo 3.1
	* Textutils 1.9
	* time 1.6
	* tput 1.0
	* UUCP 1.05
	* uuencode 1.0
	* wdiff 0.04
	* xboard 3.0.9
	* xshogi 1.2.02



Emacs Tape
----------

This tape has Common Lisp systems and libraries, GNU Emacs, assorted
extensions that work with GNU Emacs, and a few other important utilities.

	* Calc 2.02c
	* CLISP 1994.01.08
	* GNU Common Lisp 1.0
	* elib 0.06
	* Emacs 18.59
	* Emacs 19.23
	* GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual 2.3
	* gzip 1.2.4
	* Make 3.71
	* PCL 1993.03.18
	* Texinfo 3.1



Scheme Tape
-----------

Scheme is a simplified, lexically-scoped dialect of Lisp.  It was designed at
MIT and other universities to teach students the art of programming, and to
research new parallel programming constructs and compilation techniques.

This tape contains MIT Scheme 7.1, which conforms to the "Revised^4 Report On
the Algorithmic Language Scheme" (MIT AI Lab Memo 848b), for which TeX source
is included.  It is written partly in C, but is presently hard to bootstrap.
Binaries that can be used to bootstrap Scheme are available for:

   * HP 9000 series 300, 400, 700 & 800 running HP-UX 7.0 or 8.0

   * NeXT running NeXT OS 1.0 or 2.0

   * Sun-3 or Sun-4 running SunOS 4.1

   * DECstation 3100/5100 running Ultrix 4.0

   * Sony NeWS-3250 running NEWS OS 5.01

   * Vax running 4.3BSD

If your system is not on this list and you don't enjoy the bootstrap
challenge, see the JACAL item in ``GNU Software''.



X11 Tapes
---------

The two X11 tapes contain Version 11, Release 6 of the MIT X Window System.
The first tape contains all of the core software, documentation and some
contributed clients.  We call this the "required" X tape since it is
necessary for running X or running GNU Emacs under X.  The second, "optional"
tape contains contributed libraries and other toolkits, the Andrew User
Interface System, games, and other programs.

The X11 Required tape also contains all fixes and patches released to date.
We update this tape as new fixes and patches are released for programs on
both tapes.  See ``Tape & CD-ROM Subscription Service''.

We will distribute X11R5 on tape until X11R6 is stable, and on the
``November 1993 Source Code CD-ROM'', while supplies last.



Berkeley 4.4BSD-Lite Tape
-------------------------

The "4.4BSD-Lite" release is the last from the Computer Systems Research
Group at the University of California at Berkeley.  It includes most of the
BSD software system except for a few proprietary files that still remain in
the full 4.4BSD distribution.



VMS Emacs and VMS Compiler Tapes
--------------------------------

We offer two VMS tapes.	 One has just GNU Emacs 18.59 (none of the other
software on the ``Emacs Tape'', is included).  The other has GCC 2.3.3, Bison
1.19 (to compile GCC), GAS 1.38 (to assemble GCC's output) and some library
and include files (none of the other software on the ``Languages Tape'', is
included).  We are not aware of a GDB port for VMS.  Both VMS tapes have
executables from which you can bootstrap, as the DEC VMS C compiler cannot
compile GCC.  Please do not ask us to devote effort to VMS support, because it
is peripheral to the GNU Project.



CD-ROMs
*******

We currently offer these CD-ROMs:

   * see ``May 1994 Source Code CD-ROM''.

   * see ``November 1993 Source Code CD-ROM''.

   * see ``Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM''.

Our CD-ROMs are in ISO 9660 format and can be mounted as a read-only file
system on most operating systems.  If your driver supports it you can mount
each CD-ROM with "Rock Ridge" extensions and it will look just like an
ordinary Unix file system, rather than one full of truncated and otherwise
mangled names that fit the vanilla ISO 9660 specifications.

You can build most of the software without copying the sources off the CD.
You only need enough disk space for object files and intermediate build
targets.



Pricing of the GNU CD-ROMs
--------------------------

If a business or organization is ultimately paying, the May 1994 Source CD
costs $400.  It costs $100 if you, an individual, are paying out of your own
pocket.	 The Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM costs $240 for a business or
organization, and $60 for an individual.

   * What do the individual and company prices mean?

     The software on our disk is free; anyone can copy it and anyone can run
     it.  What we charge for is the physical disk and the service of
     distribution.

     We charge two different prices depending on who is buying.	 When a
     company or other organization buys the May 1994 Source CD-ROM, we charge
     $400.  When an individual buys the same disk, we charge just $100.

     This distinction is not a matter of who is allowed to use the software.
     In either case, once you have a copy, you can distribute as many copies
     as you wish, and there's no restriction on who can have or run them.
     The price distinction is entirely a matter of what kind of entity pays
     for the CD.

     You, the reader, are certainly an individual, not a company.  If you are
     buying a disk "in person", then you are probably doing so as an
     individual.  But if you expect to be reimbursed by your employer, then
     the disk is really for the company; so please pay the company price and
     get reimbursed for it.  We won't try to check up on you--we use the honor
     system--so please cooperate.

     Buying CDs at the company price is especially helpful for Project GNU;
     just 80 May 1994 Source CDs at that price supports an FSF programmer or
     tech writer for a year.

   * Why is there an individual price?

     In the past, our distribution tapes have been ordered mainly by
     companies.	 The CD at the price of $400 provides them with all of our
     software for a much lower price than they would previously have paid for
     six different tapes.  To lower the price more would cut into the FSF's
     funds very badly, and decrease the software development we can do.

     However, for individuals, $400 is too high a price; hardly anyone could
     afford that.  So we decided to make CDs available to individuals at the
     lower price of $100, but not do the same for companies.

   * Is there a maximum price?

     Our stated prices are minimums.  Feel free to pay a higher price if you
     wish to support GNU development more.  The sky's the limit; we will
     accept as high a price as you can offer.  Or simply give a donation
     (tax-deductible in the U.S.) to the Free Software Foundation, a
     tax-exempt public charity.



May 1994 Source Code CD-ROM
---------------------------

The Free Software Foundation has produced the fourth edition of its Source
Code CD-ROM.  It contains the following:

	* acm 4.5
	* Autoconf 1.10
	* BASH 1.13.5
	* bc 1.02
	* Binutils 2.3
	* Bison 1.22
	* C Library 1.08
	* Calc 2.02c
	* Chess 4.0.69
	* CLISP 1994.01.08
	* cpio 2.3
	* CVS 1.3
	* dc 0.2
	* DejaGnu 1.2
	* Diffutils 2.6
	* dld 3.2.3
	* doschk 1.1
	* ecc 1.2.1
	* ed 0.1
	* elib 0.06
	* Emacs 18.59 & Emacs 19.23
	* es 0.84
	* f2c 1994.04.14
	* Fileutils 3.9
	* find 3.8
	* finger 1.37
	* flex 2.4.6
	* Fontutils 0.6
	* GAS 1.36.utah & GAS 2.2
	* Gawk 2.15.4
	* GCC 2.5.8
	* GCL 1.0
	* GDB 4.12
	* gdbm 1.7.1
	* Ghostscript 2.6.1
	* Ghostview 1.5
	* Ghostview for Windows 1.0
	* gmp 1.3.2
	* GNATS 3.2
	* GnuGo 1.1
	* gnuplot 3.5
	* gperf 2.1a
	* Graphics 0.17
	* grep 2.0
	* Groff 1.09
	* gzip 1.2.4
	* hello 1.3
	* hp2xx 3.1.4
	* indent 1.9.1
	* Ispell 4.0
	* libg++ 2.5.3
	* m4 1.1
	* Make 3.71
	* MandelSpawn 0.07
	* mtools 2.0.7
	* MULE 1.0
	* NetFax 3.2.1
	* Nethack 3.1.3
	* NIHCL 3.0
	* nvi 1.11
	* Octave 1.0
	* Oleo 1.5
	* p2c 1.20
	* patch 2.1
	* PCL 1993.03.18
	* perl 4.036
	* ptx 0.3
	* rc 1.4
	* RCS 5.6.0.1
	* recode 3.3
	* regex 0.12
	* screen 3.5.2
	* sed 2.05
	* Shellutils 1.9.4
	* Shogi 1.1.02
	* Smalltalk 1.1.1
	* Superopt 2.3
	* tar 1.11.2
	* Termcap 1.2
	* TeX 3.1
	* Texinfo 3.1
	* Textutils 1.9.1
	* Tile Forth 2.1
	* time 1.6
	* tput 1.0
	* UUCP 1.05
	* uuencode 1.0
	* wdiff 0.04
	* X11R6-Required
	* xboard 3.0.9
	* xshogi 1.2.02

The CD-ROM also contains Texinfo source for the `GNU Emacs Lisp Reference
Manual' Edition 2.3 for version 19, and other manuals listed in
``GNU Documentation''; as well as a snapshot of the Emacs Lisp Archive at Ohio
State University.  (You can get the libraries in this archive by anonymous FTP
from `archive.cis.ohio-state.edu' in `/pub/gnu/emacs/elisp-archive'.)

The contents of the MIT Scheme, X11 Optional and VMS tapes are not included.
Programs that are only on MS-DOS diskettes and not on the tapes are also not
included.  See ``Tapes'' and ``MS-DOS Diskettes''.

Except for the Ghostview for Windows executable, there are no precompiled
programs on this CD.  You will need a C compiler.  (Programs which need some
other interpreter or compiler normally provide the C source for a
bootstrapping program.)



November 1993 Source Code CD-ROM
--------------------------------

The Free Software Foundation is still distributing the third edition of its
Source Code CD-ROM.  We are doing so because it contains X11R5, and we feel
that people should have a choice between X11R5 and X11R6 until the latter is
stable.	 Because the other software on the third edition is older than that
on the fourth edition, we have reduced the price of the third edition.	The
third edition contains the following:

	* acm 3.1
	* Autoconf 1.7
	* BASH 1.13.4
	* bc 1.02
	* Binutils 1.9 & Binutils 2.3
	* Bison 1.22
	* C Library 1.06.7
	* Calc 2.02b
	* Chess 4.0p62
	* CLISP 1993.11.08
	* cperf 2.1a
	* cpio 2.3
	* CVS 1.3
	* dc 0.2
	* DejaGnu 1.0.1
	* diffutils 2.6
	* dld 3.2.3
	* doschk 1.1
	* ecc 1.2.1
	* elib 0.06
	* Emacs 18.59 & Emacs 19.21
	* es 0.84
	* f2c 1993.04.28
	* NetFax 3.2.1
	* Fileutils 3.9
	* find 3.8
	* finger 1.37
	* flex 2.3.8
	* Fontutils 0.6
	* GAS 1.36.utah, 1.38.1, & 2.2
	* Gawk 2.15.3
	* GCC 2.5.4
	* GDB 4.11
	* gdbm 1.7.1
	* Ghostscript 2.6.1
	* Ghostview 1.5
	* Ghostview for Windows 1.0
	* gmp 1.3.2
	* GNATS 3.01
	* gnuplot 3.5
	* GnuGo 1.1
	* Graphics 0.17
	* grep 2.0 (with egrep and fgrep)
	* Groff 1.08
	* gzip 1.2.4
	* hello 1.3
	* hp2xx 3.1.3a
	* indent 1.8
	* Ispell 4.0
	* less 177
	* libg++ 2.5.1
	* m4 1.1
	* Make 3.69.1
	* MandelSpawn 0.06
	* mtools 2.0.7
	* MULE 1.0
	* Nethack 3.1.3
	* NIHCL 3.0
	* Oleo 1.5
	* p2c 1.20
	* patch 2.1
	* PCL 1993.03.18
	* perl 4.036
	* ptx 0.3
	* rc 1.4
	* RCS 5.6.0.1
	* recode 3.2.4
	* regex 0.12
	* MIT Scheme 7.2 (for MS-DOS)
	* screen 3.5.2
	* sed 1.18 & sed 2.03
	* Shellutils 1.9.1
	* GNU Shogi 1.1p02
	* Smalltalk 1.1.1
	* Superopt 2.3
	* tar 1.11.2
	* Termcap library 1.2
	* TeX 3.1
	* Texinfo 3.1
	* Textutils 1.9.1
	* Tile Forth 2.1
	* time 1.6
	* tput 1.0
	* UUCP 1.04
	* uuencode 1.0
	* wdiff 0.04
	* X11R5-Required

The CD-ROM also contains Texinfo source for the `GNU Emacs Lisp Reference
Manual' Edition 2.02 for version 19, and other manuals listed in
``GNU Documentation''; as well as a snapshot of the Emacs Lisp Archive at Ohio
State University.  (You can get the libraries in this archive by anonymous
FTP from `archive.cis.ohio-state.edu' in `/pub/gnu/emacs/elisp-archive'.)

The contents of the MIT Scheme, X11 Optional and VMS tapes are not included.
Programs that are only on MS-DOS diskettes and not on the tapes are also not
included.  See ``Tapes'' and ``MS-DOS Diskettes''.

Except for the MIT Scheme binaries for MS-DOS and the Ghostview for Windows
executable, there are no precompiled programs on this CD.  You will need a C
compiler (programs which need some other interpreter or compiler normally
provide the C source for a bootstrapping program).



Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM
------------------------------

We are now offering a CD-ROM that contains executables for GNU compiler tools
for some systems which lack a compiler.	 This helps people with 80386 and
80486 machines running MS-D0S, not to mention HP-PA machines running HP-UX 9,
and Sparcs running SunOS 4.1 & Solaris 2.

This enables the people who use these systems to compile GNU and other free
software without having to buy a proprietary compiler.

We hope to have more systems on each update of this CD-ROM.  If you can help
build binaries for new systems (especially those that don't come with a C
compiler), or have one to suggest, please contact us at the addresses on page
1.

These programs:

	* DJGPP 1.11.m1
	* GCC/G++/Objective-C 2.5.7
	* GDB 4.11
	* GAS 2.2
	* Binutils 2.3
	* Bison 1.22
	* Flex 2.4.5
	* Make 3.70
	* libg++ 2.5.3

For these platforms:

	* `i386-msdos'
	* `hppa1.1-hp-hpux9'
	* `sparc-sun-solaris2'
	* `sparc-sun-sunos4.1'



MS-DOS Diskettes
****************

The FSF distributes, on 3.5inch 1.44MB diskettes, some of the GNU software
ported to MS-DOS.  The disks have both sources and executables.



DJGPP Diskettes
---------------

We offer DJGPP on 21 diskettes.	 For details, see ``GNU Software''.



Emacs Diskettes
---------------

Demacs is a version of GNU Emacs.  Two versions are included on the six
diskettes we distribute: one handles 8-bit character sets; the other, based
on an early version of MULE, handles 16-bit character sets including Kanji.

We will be replacing Demacs with the MS-DOS port of GNU Emacs 19, as soon as
the port is ready.  The number of diskettes is not yet known.  See ``GNU
Software'', for details about both programs.



Selected Utilities Diskettes
----------------------------

The GNUish MS-DOS Project releases GNU software ported to PC compatibles.  We
offer these programs on five diskettes.	 In general, this software will run
on 8086 and 80286-based machines; an 80386 is not required.  Some of these
utilities are necessarily missing features.  Included are: `cpio', `diff',
`find', `flex', `gdbm', `grep', `indent', `less', `m4', `make', `ptx', RCS,
`sed', `shar', `sort', & Texinfo.



Windows Diskette
----------------

We offer GNU Chess and `gnuplot' for Microsoft Windows on a single diskette.



Tape & CD-ROM Subscription Service
**********************************

If you do not have net access, our subscription service enables you to stay
current with the latest FSF developments.  For a one-time cost equivalent to
three tapes or CD-ROMs (plus shipping in some cases), we will ship you four
new versions of the tape of your choice or the Source Code CD-ROM.  The tapes
are sent each quarter, the CD-ROMs are sent as they are issued (which is
currently twice a year, but we may issue it more frequently in the future.)

Regularly, we will send you a new version of an Emacs, Languages, Utilities,
or MIT X Window System (X11R6) Required tape or the Source CD-ROM.  The MIT
Scheme and MIT X Window System Optional tapes are not changed often enough to
warrant quarterly updates.  We do not yet know if we will be offering
subscriptions to the Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM.

Since Emacs 19 is on the Emacs Tape and the Source CD-ROM, a subscription to
either is an easy way to keep current with Emacs 19 as it evolves.

A subscription is also an easy way to keep up with the regular bug fixes to
the MIT X Window System.  We will update the X11R6 Required tape as fixes and
patches are issued throughout the year.	 Each new edition of the ``Source
Code CD-ROM'', also has updated sources for the MIT X Window System.

Please note: In two cases, you must pay 4 times the normal shipping required
for a single order when you pay for each subscription.	If you're in Alaska,
Hawaii, or Puerto Rico you must add $20.00 for shipping for each
subscription.  If you're outside of U.S., Canada, and Puerto Rico, you have
to add $120.00 for shipping subscription.  See "Unix and VMS Software" &
"Shipping Instructions" on the FSF Order Form, in the centerfold.



The Deluxe Distribution
***********************

The Free Software Foundation has been repeatedly asked to create a package
that provides executables for all of our software.  Normally we offer only
sources.  In addition to providing binaries with the source code, the Deluxe
Distribution includes a complete set of our printed manuals and reference
cards.

The FSF Deluxe Distribution contains the binaries and sources to hundreds of
different programs including GNU Emacs, the GNU C Compiler, the GNU Debugger,
the complete MIT X Window System, and all the GNU utilities.

You may choose one of these machines and operating systems: HP 9000 series
300, 700 or 800 (4.3BSD or HP-UX); RS/6000 (AIX); SONY News 68k (4.3BSD or
NewsOS 4); Sun-3, Sun-4, or SPARC (SunOS 4 or Solaris).	 If your machine or
system is not listed, or if a specific program has not been ported to that
machine, please call the FSF office at the phone number below or send e-mail
to `gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu' to see what we can do.

We supply the software on one of these tape formats in Unix `tar' format:
1600 or 6250bpi 1/2in reel; Sun DC300XLP 1/4in cartridge, QIC-24;
Hewlett-Packard 16-track DC600HC 1/4in cartridge; IBM RS/6000 1/4in
cartridge, QIC-150; Exabyte 8mm cartridge; DAT 4mm cartridge.  If your
computer cannot read any of these, please contact us to see if we can handle
your format.

The manuals included are one each of the `Bison', `Calc', `Gawk', `GNU C
Compiler', `GNU C Library', `GDB', `Flex', `GNU Emacs 19 Lisp Reference',
`Make', `Texinfo', and `Termcap' manuals; six copies of the `GNU Emacs 19'
manual; and packets of ten reference cards each for GNU Emacs, Calc, GDB,
Bison, & Flex.	In addition, every Deluxe Distribution includes CD-ROMs (in
ISO 9660 format with Rock Ridge extensions) that contain sources of our
software & compiler tool binaries for some systems.

The price of the Deluxe Distribution is $5000 (shipping included).  It is
designed for people who want to have everything compiled for them.  These
sales provide enormous financial assistance towards helping the FSF develop
more free software.  To order, please fill out the "Deluxe Distribution"
section on the Free Software Foundation Order Form in the centerfold and send
it to:

	Free Software Foundation, Inc.
	675 Massachusetts Avenue
	Cambridge, MA	02139--3309
	USA

	Telephone: +1-617-876-3296
	Fax:	   +1-617-492-9057
	Fax (in Japan):
		   0031-13-2473 (KDD)
		   0066-3382-0158 (IDC)
	Electronic mail: gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu



FSF T-shirt
***********

We have Free Software Foundation T-shirts, with a drawing by Cambridge artist
Jamal Hannah.  They are available in two colors, Natural and Black.  Natural
is an off-white, unbleached, undyed, environment-friendly cotton, printed
with black ink, and is great for tye-dyeing or displaying as is.  Black is
printed with white ink and is perfect for late night hacking.  All shirts are
thick 100% cotton, and are available in sizes M, L, XL and XXL.

The front of the T-shirt has an image of a GNU hacking at a workstation with
the text "GNU's Not Unix" above and the text "Free Software Foundation" below.
We have added a copy of the GNU General Public License to the T-shirt's back,
which used to be blank.

Use the Free Software Foundation Order Form, in the centerfold, to order your
shirt, and consider getting one as a present for your favorite hacker!



Free Software Foundation Order Form
***********************************

All items are distributed with permission to copy and to redistribute.
Texinfo source for each manual and source for each reference card is on the
appropriate tape, diskette, or CD-ROM; the prices for these magnetic media do
not include printed documentation.  All items are provided on an "as is"
basis, with no warranty of any kind.  Please allow six weeks for delivery
(though it won't usually take that long).


     PRICE AND CONTENTS MAY CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE AFTER January 31, 1995.



Unix and VMS Software
---------------------

The following tapes in the formats indicated (see "Tapes" for contents):

	Please circle the dollar amount for each tape you order.

		Reel to	  Sun (1)   HP	      IBM (2)	Exabyte	 DAT
		reel			      RS/6000
		Unix tar  Unix tar  Unix tar  Unix tar	Unix tar Unix tar
		9-track	  QIC-24    16-track  QIC-150
		1600 bpi  DC300XLP  DC600HC   DC600A
		1/2" reel 1/4" c.t. 1/4" c.t. 1/4" c.t. 8mm c.t. 4mm c.t.

    (c.t. = cartridge tape)

Emacs		$200	  $210	    $230      $215 (3)	$205	 $225
Languages	$200	  $210	    $230      $215	$205	 $225
Utilities	$200	  $210	    $230      $215	$205	 $225
4.4BSD-Lite	$200	  $210	    $230      $215	$205	 $225
Scheme		$200	  $210	    $230      $215	$205	 $225
X11r5-Required	$200	  $210	    $230      $215	$205	 $225
X11r5-Optional	$200	  $210	    $230      $215	$205	 $225
X11r6-Required	$200	  $210	    $230      $215	$205	 $225
X11r6-Optional	$200	  $210	    $230      $215	$205	 $225

	 (1) Sun tapes can be read on some other Unix systems.
	 (2) IBM RS/6000 tapes can be read on some other Unix systems.
	 (3) The IBM Emacs tape also has binaries for GNU Emacs.


Subscriptions, 4 updates for one year (see "Tape & CD-ROM Subscription
Service"):

Emacs		$600	  $630	    $690      $645	$615	 $675
Languages	$600	  $630	    $690      $645	$615	 $675
Utilities	$600	  $630	    $690      $645	$615	 $675
X11r6-Required	$600	  $630	    $690      $645	$615	 $675

      Subtotal $ ______	 Please put total of the above circled amounts here.


The following, on 1600 bpi reel-to-reel 9 track 1/2" tapes, in VMS BACKUP
format (aka interchange format) (see "VMS Emacs and VMS Compiler Tapes"):

____ @ $195  = $ ______	  VMS Emacs, GNU Emacs source & executables only.

____ @ $195  = $ ______	  VMS Compiler, GCC, GAS, and Bison source and
			  executables only.


FSF Deluxe Distribution (see "The Deluxe Distribution"):

____ @ $5000 = $ ______	 The Deluxe Distribution, with manuals, etc.

Machine: _____________________________________________________________________

Operating system: ____________________________________________________________

Media type: __________________________________________________________________



CD-ROM, in ISO 9660 format (see "Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM"):

____ @ $240  = $ ______	  GNU Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM for
			  corporations and other organizations.
____ @	$60  = $ ______	  GNU Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM for individuals.



Source Code CD-ROM, in ISO 9660 format (see "May 1994 Source Code CD-ROM"):

  *** NEW !!! ***

____ @ $400  = $ ______	  GNU Source Code CD-ROM, May 1994 edition with X11r6,
			  for corporations and other organizations.  NEW !!!
____ @ $100  = $ ______	  GNU Source Code CD-ROM, May 1994 edition with X11r6,
			  for individuals.  NEW !!!


Source Code CD-ROM, in ISO 9660 format (see "November 1993 Source Code
CD-ROM"):

  *** PRICE REDUCED !!! ***

____ @ $260  = $ ______	  GNU Source Code CD-ROM, November 1993 edition with
			  X11r5, for corporations & other organizations.
					PRICE REDUCED !!!
____ @	$65  = $ ______	  GNU Source Code CD-ROM, November 1993 edition with
			  X11r5, for individuals.    PRICE REDUCED !!!


Subscriptions, next 4 updates, of the Source Code CD-ROM, in ISO 9660 format
(see "Tape & CD-ROM Subscription Service"):

____ @ $1200 = $ ______	  Subscription to the GNU Source Code CD-ROM for
			  corporations and other organizations.
____ @ $300  = $ ______	  Subscription to the GNU Source Code CD-ROM for
			  individuals.


MS-DOS Software
---------------

The following source and executables for MS-DOS, on 3.5" 1.44MB diskettes
(see "MS-DOS Distribution"):

  *** BEING UPDATED !!! ***
____ @ $ 90  = $ ______	  Emacs diskettes, GNU Emacs, for 80386 and up.
			  BEING UPDATED !!!
____ @ $ 80  = $ ______	  DJGPP diskettes, GCC version 2, for 80386 and up
			  (also on the "Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM").
____ @ $ 85  = $ ______	  Selected Utilities diskettes, 8086 and up.

____ @ $ 40  = $ ______	  Windows diskette, GNU Chess and gnuplot for
			  Microsoft Windows.


Manuals
-------

The following manuals (see "GNU Documentation"):

____ @ $ 25  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs version 19 manual, unit price for 1 to 5
			  copies, about 418 pages, new 9th edition with a
			  reference card.
____ @ $ 17  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs version 19 manuals, unit price for 6 or
			  more.
  *** UPDATED !!! ***
____ @ $ 50  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs Lisp Reference version 19 manual, about
			  756 pages in 2 volumes.  UPDATED for Emacs 19.23!!
____ @ $200  = $ ______	  A box of 5 GNU Emacs Lisp Reference version 19
			  manuals.	  UPDATED for Emacs 19.23!!
  *** UPDATED !!! ***
____ @ $ 50  = $ ______	  Using and Porting GNU CC version 2.5, about 428
			  pages.		UPDATED !!!
____ @ $ 50  = $ ______	  GNU C Library Reference Manual, about 670 pages.

____ @ $ 50  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs Calc manual, about 596 pages, with a
			  reference card.
____ @ $ 20  = $ ______	  Debugging with GDB, about 182 pages, with a reference
			  card.
  *** UPDATED !!! ***
____ @ $ 20  = $ ______	  Texinfo manual, about 248 pages.  UPDATED !!!

____ @ $ 20  = $ ______	  Gawk manual, about 188 pages.

____ @ $ 20  = $ ______	  Make manual, about 158 pages.

____ @ $ 20  = $ ______	  Bison manual, about 98 pages, with a reference card.

____ @ $ 20  = $ ______	  Flex manual, about 124 pages, with a reference card.

____ @ $ 15  = $ ______	  Termcap manual, 68 pages.



Older Manuals
-------------

____ @ $ 25  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs version 18 manual, unit price for 1 to 5
			  copies, about 410 pages, with a reference card.
____ @ $ 17  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs version 18 manuals, unit price for 6 or
			  more.
____ @ $ 50  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs Lisp Reference version 18 manual, about
			  614 pages in 2 volumes.
____ @ $200  = $ ______	  A box of 5 GNU Emacs Lisp Reference version 18
			  manuals.


Reference Cards
---------------

The following reference cards, unit price, without the manuals:

____ @ $  2  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs version 18 reference card.

____ @ $  2  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs version 19 reference card.

____ @ $  2  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs Calc reference card.

____ @ $  2  = $ ______	  GDB reference card.

____ @ $  2  = $ ______	  Bison reference card.

____ @ $  2  = $ ______	  Flex reference card.



The following reference cards, in packets of ten:

____ @ $ 10  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs version 18 reference cards.

____ @ $ 10  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs version 19 reference cards.

____ @ $ 10  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs Calc reference cards.

____ @ $ 10  = $ ______	  GDB reference cards.

____ @ $ 10  = $ ______	  Bison reference cards.

____ @ $ 10  = $ ______	  Flex reference cards.



T-shirts
--------

GNU/FSF T-shirts, thick 100% cotton (see "FSF T-shirt"):

The back of the t-shirt, which used to be blank, now has a copy of the GNU
General Public License on it.

____ @ $ 15  = $ ______	  Size M     ____ natural  ____ black.

____ @ $ 15  = $ ______	  Size L     ____ natural  ____ black.

____ @ $ 15  = $ ______	  Size XL    ____ natural  ____ black.

____ @ $ 15  = $ ______	  Size XXL   ____ natural  ____ black.
		 ------

      Subtotal $ ______



Tax and Shipping Costs
----------------------

	     + $ ______	  In  Massachusetts:  add 5% sales tax, or give tax
			  exempt number.
	     + $ ______	  In Alaska, Hawaii, or Puerto Rico for shipping:
			  for GNU Emacs Lisp Reference and GNU Emacs Calc
			  manuals, add $5 each, or $20 per box.	 For all other
			  items, add $5 base charge, then $1 per item except
			  reference cards; i.e.,
			  shipping for all other items = $5 + $1 * n.
			  Add $20 for each tape or CD-ROM subscription.
	     + $ ______	  Outside of U.S., Canada, and Puerto Rico for
			  shipping:  Add $20 base charge, and then add $10
			  more for *each* item (except reference cards) in the
			  order; i.e.,
			  shipping for all other items = $20 + $10 * n.
			  Add $120 for each tape or CD-ROM subscription.
	     + $ ______	  Optional (tax-deductible in the U.S.) donation.
		 ------

	 TOTAL $ ______	  We pay for shipping via UPS ground transportation in
			  the contiguous 48 states and Canada.



Shipping Information
--------------------

Name: ________________________________________________________________________

Mail Stop/Dept. Name: ________________________________________________________

Organization: ________________________________________________________________

Street Address: ______________________________________________________________

City/State/Province: _________________________________________________________

Zip Code/Postal Code/Country: ________________________________________________

Telephone number in case of a problem with your order.
For international orders, please include a FAX number. _______________________


Orders filled only upon receipt of check, money order or credit card order in
U.S. dollars.  Unpaid orders will be returned to the sender.  We do not have
the staff to handle the billing of unpaid orders.  Please help keep our lives
simple by including your payment with your order.


For orders from outside the U.S.:

Orders must be paid in U.S. dollars.  You are responsible for paying all
duties, tariffs, and taxes.  If you refuse to pay the charges, the shipper
will return or abandon the order.


Please make checks payable to the "Free Software Foundation".


For Credit Card Orders:

The Free Software Foundation takes these credit cards: Visa, Mastercard, JCB,
Diner's Club, and Carte Blanche.  Please note that we are charged about 5% of
an order's total amount in credit card processing fees.	 Please consider
paying by check instead, or adding on a 5% donation to make up the difference.
To place a credit card order, please give us this information:

Card type: ___________________________________________________________________

Account Number: ______________________________________________________________

Expiration Date: _____________________________________________________________

Your Signature: ______________________________________________________________


For wire transfers orders:  Call or write us for details.


			 Please mail orders to: Free Software Foundation
						675 Massachusetts Avenue
Version: June 1994 ASCII etc/ORDERS		Cambridge, MA  02139  USA
						+1-617-876-3296
						FAX: +1-617-492-9057
						FAX numbers in Japan:
PRICES AND CONTENTS MAY CHANGE				0031-13-2473 (KDD)
WITHOUT NOTICE AFTER January 31, 1995.			0066-3382-0158 (IDC)

---------------------------------------------------------------------
local variables:
mode: text
fill-column: 78
end:
