.if n \{\
.	ds ct "
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ct \\(co
.\}
.TH ANSWER 1L "Elm Version 2.4" "USENET Community Trust"
.SH NAME
answer - phone message transcription system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B answer
[
.B \-pu
]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Answer\^
is a part of the 
.B Elm
mail system and is designed for secretaries and the like
to allow them to answer phones and|or listen to phone message
machines and quickly and easily transcribe the messages into
electronic mail.
.PP
The program will use standard mail addresses or aliases
included in the standard .elm directory alias files.
It can also use
its own alias set (usually a subset of the
system aliases, with more fields per user (i.e. unique first
names, unique last names, first-initial last name, and so on)).
Note that if you want to use this capability, it
means that you must create this alias set and then install it, using
.I newalias,
as a separate alias table for the account this program is to 
be run from.
.PP
Options are:
.TP 1.0i
.B "  -p"
Prompt for phone slip type message fields.
.TP
.B "  -u"
Allow names that are not in the alias table.  Without this
option all names must be resolvable as aliases and answer will
reprompt for a new name if the alias cannot be resolved.
.PP
Interface-wise, the program is a breeze to use - type 'answer'
to start it up and then merely type a user name at the
.nf
	
	Message to:

.fi
prompt, fill in the requested information (simply type an
"x" next to the pertinent information - "TELEPHONED",
"PLEASE CALL", "URGENT", etc. if the -p option was given), 
and then enter a message, if any, ending with a blank line.
If you elect to use the special alias file, 
names can be entered as 'Firstname Lastname' and the system
will try to find a mail alias based on the first letter of the
first name plus the last name.  For example, 'Dave Taylor'
will cause the program to search for an alias 'd_taylor' in
the file (note the transliteration into lower case).   The 
program will loop until killed or quit.
.PP
.I Answer
can be easily exited by typing any of 'quit', 'exit' 'done', 
or 'bye' at the 'Message to:' prompt.
.SH AUTHOR
Elm Development Group
.SH SEE ALSO
.I "The Elm Alias System Users Guide"
.sp
.br
newalias(1L), checkalias(1L), mail(1), mailx(1), from(1L), printmail(1L)
.SH FILES
$HOME/.elm/aliases.text       individual alias source
.br
$HOME/.elm/aliases.dir        individual alias dbz directory table
.br
$HOME/.elm/aliases.pag        individual alias dbz hash table
.br
$HOME/.elm/aliases            individual alias data table
.br
/tmp/snd.$$                   edit buffer for outgoing mail
.SH BUG REPORTS TO
Syd Weinstein	elm@DSI.COM	(dsinc!elm)
.SH COPYRIGHTS
\fB\*(ct\fRCopyright 1988-1992 by The USENET Community Trust
.br
Derived from Elm 2.0, \fB\*(ct\fR Copyright 1986, 1987 by Dave Taylor
