.TH FUNZIP 1 "10 Sep 92 (v1.6)"
.SH NAME
funzip \- extract from a ZIP archive file as a filter
.SH SYNOPSIS
[...]  |  \fBfunzip\fP [ -password ]  |  [...]
.PP
\fBfunzip\fP [ -password ]  input.zip |  [...]
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP [\fI-password\fP] \w'[\fI-password\fP]'u+2m
Optional password to be used if ZIP archive is encrypted.  Decryption
may not be supported at some sites.  See DESCRIPTION for more details.
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I FUnZip
acts as a filter; that is, it assumes that a ZIP archive is being piped into
standard input, and it extracts the first member from the archive to stdout.
If there is an argument, then the input comes from the specified file
instead of from stdin.  A password for encrypted zip files can be specified
on the command line (preceding the file name, if any) by prefixing the
password with a dash.  If the first entry of the zip file is encrypted and
no password is specified on the command line, then the user is prompted for
a password, and the password is not echoed on the console.
.PP
Given the limitation on single-member extraction, \fIFUnZip\fP is most
useful in conjunction with a secondary archiver program such as tar(1).
The following section includes an example illustrating this usage in the
case of disk backups to tape.
.PD
.SH EXAMPLES
To use \fIFUnZip\fP to extract the first member file of the archive test.zip
and to pipe it into more(1):
.PP
.IP "\t\fIfunzip\fP test.zip | more"
.PP
To use \fIFUnZip\fP to test the first member file of test.zip (any errors
will be reported on standard error):
.PP
.IP "\t\fIfunzip\fP test.zip > /dev/null"
.PP
To use \fIZip\fP and \fIFUnZip\fP in place of compress(1) and zcat(1) for
tape backups:
.PP
.IP "\ttar cf \- . | \fIzip\fP \-7 | dd of=/dev/nrst0 obs=8k"
.IP "\tdd if=/dev/nrst0 ibs=8k | \fIfunzip\fP | tar xf \-"
.PP
(where, for example, nrst0 is a SCSI tape drive).
.PD
.SH LIMITATIONS
There is presently no way to extract any member but the first from a ZIP
archive.  This would be useful in the case where a ZIP archive is included
within another archive.  In the case where the first member is a directory,
\fIFUnZip\fP simply creates the directory and exits.
.PP
\fIFUnZip\fP would be useful under OS/2, too.
.PP
The functionality of \fIFUnZip\fP should be included in \fIUnZip\fP
directly (future release).
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
unzip(1), zip(1), zipcloak(1), zipinfo(1), zipnote(1), zipsplit(1)
.PD
.SH AUTHOR
Mark Adler (Info-ZIP)
.PD
