.TH ISPELL 1
.SH NAME
ispell \- Correct spelling for a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ispell
[ file ... ]
.br
.B ispell
[
.B \-l
|
.B \-D
|
.B \-E
]
.br
.B spell
[ +local_file ] [ file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Ispell
is a program that helps you to correct typos in a file, and to find
the correct spelling of words.  When presented with a word that is not
in the dictionary, ispell attempts to find near misses that might
include the word you meant.
.PP
The best way to use ispell is with GNU EMACS.  For documentation about
this mode, see the info topic "ispell".
.PP
Ispell can also be used by itself, and in this case
the most common usage is "ispell filename".
If ispell finds a word that is not in the dictionary, 
it is printed at the top of the screen.  Ispell then checks the
dictionary for near misses \- words that differ only by a single
letter, a missing or extra letter, or a pair of transposed letters.
Any that are found are printed on the following lines,
and finally, two lines of context
containing the word are printed at the bottom of the screen.  If your
terminal can type in reverse video, the word itself is highlighted.
.PP
If you think the word is correct as it
stands, you can type either "Space" to accept it this one time, "A" to
accept it for the rest of this file, or "I" to accept it and put it in
your private dictionary.  If one of the near misses is the word you
want, type the corresponding number.  Finally,
you can type "R" and you will be prompted for a
replacement word.  The string you type will be broken into words, and
each one will also be checked.  You can also type "?" for help.
.PP
If ispell is started with no arguments, it enters a loop reading words
from the standard input, and printing messages about them on the
standard output.  You can use this mode to find the spelling of a
problem word.  For example:
.PP
You can print out the system dictionary.  Use -D if you want flags, or 
-E if you want the words expanded.
.sp 1
.RS
.nf
% ispell
word: independant
how about: independent
word: ^D
.RE
.fi
.PP
The
.B \-l
or "list" option to ispell is used to produce a list
of misspelled words from the standard input.  This mode is
compatible with the traditional spell program, except that the
output is not sorted.
.PP
There are several other options provided so that other programs can
use ispell.  See the documentation in the ispell source directory for
details. 
.PP
If ispell is executed with the name `spell', it attempts to be compatible
with the traditional spell program.  You can also get this behavior
with the 
.B \-u
flag.  In this case, the list of files (or standard input) is checked,
and an alphabetized list of misspellings is produced on the standard
output.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 40
/usr/lib/ispell.dict
System dictionary
.TP 40
$HOME/ispell.words
Private dictionary
.br
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
ispell.texinfo
.SH AUTHOR
Pace Willisson (pace@mit-vax pace@eddie.mit.edu)

