.TH JOIN 1L "GNU Text Utilities" "FSF" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
join \- join lines of two files on a common field
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B join
[\-a 1|2] [\-v 1|2] [\-e empty-string] [\-o field-list...] [\-t char]
[\-j[1|2] field] [\-1 field] [\-2 field] file1 file2
.br
.B join
{\-\-help,\-\-version}
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page
documents the GNU version of
.BR join .
.B join
prints to the standard output a line for each pair of input lines, one
each from
.I file1
and
.IR file2 ,
that have identical join fields.  Either filename (but not both) can
be `\-', meaning the standard input.
.I file1
and
.I file2
should be already sorted in increasing order (not numerically) on the
join fields; unless the
.I \-t
option is given, they should be sorted ignoring blanks at the start of
the line, as
.B sort
does when given the
.I \-b
option.
.PP
The defaults are: the join field is the first field in each line;
fields in the input are separated by one or more blanks, with leading
blanks on the line ignored; fields in the output are separated by a
space; each output line consists of the join field, the remaining
fields from
.IR file1 ,
then the remaining fields from
.IR file2 .
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-a file-number"
Print a line for each unpairable line in file
.I file-number
(either 1 or 2), in addition to the normal output.
.TP
.I "\-e string"
Replace empty output fields (those that are missing in the input) with
.IR string .
.TP
.I "\-1, \-j1 field"
Join on field
.I field
(a positive integer) of file 1.
.TP
.I "\-2, \-j2 field"
Join on field
.I field
(a positive integer) of file 2.
.TP
.I "\-j field"
Equivalent to
.IR "\-1 field \-2 field" .
.TP
.I "\-o field-list..."
Construct each output line according to the format in
.IR field-list .
Each element in
.I field-list
consists of a file number (either 1 or 2), a period, and a field
number (a positive integer).  The elements in the list are separated
by commas or blanks.  Multiple
.I field-list
arguments can be given after a single
.I \-o
option; the values of all lists given with
.I \-o
are concatenated together.
.TP
.I "\-t char"
Use character
.I char
as the input and output field separator.
.TP
.I "\-v file-number"
Print a line for each unpairable line in file
.I file-number
(either 1 or 2), instead of the normal output.
.PP
In addition, when GNU
.B join
is invoked with exactly one argument, the following options are recognized:
.TP
.I "\-\-help"
Print a usage message on standard output and exit successfully.
.TP
.I "\-\-version"
Print version information on standard output then exit successfully.
