.TH SHAR 1 "September 27, 1990"
.SH NAME
shar \- create shell archives
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
shar [ options ] file ...
shar \-S [ options ]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Shar
creates "shell archives" (or shar files) which are in text format
and can be mailed. These files may be unpacked later by executing them
with /bin/sh. The resulting archive is sent to standard out unless the
\f2\-o\f1 option is given.  A wide range of features provide extensive
flexibility in manufacturing shars and in specifying shar "smartness."
Archives may be "vanilla" or comprehensive.
This manual page reflects shar version 3.52.3.
.SS OPTIONS
.PP
Options can be given in any order. Some options depend on each other:
.nf
	The \f2\-o\f1 option is required if the \f2\-l\f1 or \f2\-L\f1 option is used.
	The \f2\-n\f1 option is required if the \f2\-a\f1 option is used.
	See \f2\-V\f1 below.
.fi
.IP "\f2\-V\f1"
Produce "vanilla" shars which rely only upon the existence of sed and
echo in the unsharing environment.  In addition, "if test" must also
be supported if the \f2\-X\f1 option is used.  The \f2\-V\f1 silently
disables options offensive to the "network cop" (or "brown shirt"),
but does warn you if it is specified with \f2\-B\f1, \f2-z\f1,
\f2\-Z\f1, \f2\-p\f1 or \f2\-M\f1 (any of which does or might
require uudecode, gzip or compress in the unsharing environment).
.IP "\f2\-v\f1"
Verbose OFF. Disables the inclusion of comments to be output when the archive
is unpacked.
.IP "\f2\-w\f1"
Do NOT check with 'wc \-c' after unpack. The default is to check.
.IP "\f2\-n\f1 name"
Name of archive to be included in the header of the shar files.
See the \f2\-a\f1 switch.
.IP "\f2\-a\f1"
Allows automatic generation of headers:
.nf
	Submitted-by: who@where
	Archive-name: <name>/part##
.fi
The <name> must be given with the \f2\-n\f1 switch.
If name includes a '/' "/part" isn't used. Thus:
.RS 10m
.nf
.ta 30n
\-n xyzzy	produces:
	xyzzy/part01
	xyzzy/part02

\-n xyzzy/patch	produces:
	xyzzy/patch01
	xyzzy/patch02

\-n xyzzy/patch01.	produces:
	xyzzy/patch01.01
	xyzzy/patch01.02
.RE
.fi
.IP ""
The who@where can be
explicitly stated with the \f2\-s\f1 switch if the default isn't apropriate.
Who@where is essentially built as `whoami`@`uname`.
.IP "\f2\-s\f1 who@where"
Override automatically determined submitter name.
.IP "\f2\-x\f1"
Overwrite existing files without checking.
If neither \f2\-x\f1 nor \f2\-X\f1 is specified, the unpack will
check for and
not overwrite existing files when unpacking the archive
(unless '\-c' is passed as a parameter to the script when unpacking).
.IP "\f2\-X\f1"
Interactively overwrite existing files
(DO NOT USE FOR SHARS SUBMITTED TO THE NET).
.IP "\f2\-B\f1"
Treat all files as binary, use uuencode prior to packing. This increases the
size of the archive. The recipient must have uudecode in order to unpack.
(USE OF UUENCODE IS NOT APPRECIATED BY MANY ON THE NET).
.IP "\f2\-T\f1"
Treat all files as text (default).
.IP "\f2\-z\f1"
Gzip and uuencode all files prior to packing. The recipient must have
uudecode and gzip (used with -d) in order to unpack
(USE OF UUENCODE AND GZIP IS NOT APPRECIATED BY MANY ON THE NET).
.IP "\f2\-Z\f1"
Compress and uuencode all files prior to packing. The recipient must have
uudecode and compress (used with -d) in order to unpack
(USE OF UUENCODE AND COMPRESS IS NOT APPRECIATED BY MANY ON THE NET).
Option \f2\-C\f1 is synonymous to \f2\-Z\f1, but is being deprecated.
.IP "\f2\-m\f1"
Avoid generating 'touch' commands to restore the file modification
dates when unpacking files from the archive.
.IP "\f2\-p\f1"
Allow positional parameter options. The options "\f2\-B\f1", "\f2\-T\f1",
"\f2-z\f1" and "\f2\-Z\f1" may be embedded, and files to the right of the
option will be processed in the specified mode.
.IP "\f2\-g\f1 X"
When doing compression, use '\-X' as a parameter to gzip.
The \f2\-g\f1 option turns on the \f2\-z\f1 option by default.
.IP "\f2\-b\f1 X"
When doing compression, use '\-bX' as a parameter to compress.
The \f2\-B\f1 option turns on the \f2\-Z\f1 option by default.
.IP "\f2\-M\f1"
Mixed mode.  Determine if the files are text or binary and archive
correctly.  Files found to be binary are uudecoded prior to packing
(USE OF UUENCODE IS NOT APPRECIATED BY MANY ON THE NET).
.IP "\f2\-P\f1"
Use temporary files instead of pipes in the shar file.
.IP "\f2\-c\f1"
Start the shar with a cut line. A line saying 'Cut here' is placed at the
start of each output file.
.IP "\f2\-f\f1"
Restore by filename only, rather than path. This option causes only file
names to be used, which is useful when building a shar from several
directories, or another directory.  Note that if a directory name is passed
to shar, the substructure of that directory will be restored whether \f2\-f\f1
is specified or not.
.IP "\f2\-d\f1 XXX"
Use XXX to delimit the files in the shar instead of SHAR_EOF.
This is for those who want to personalize their shar files.
.IP "\f2\-F\f1"
Forces the prefix character (normally 'X' unless the parameter to the \f2\-d\f1
option starts with 'X') to be prepended to every line even if
not required.  This option may slightly increase the size of the archive,
especially if \f2\-B\f1 or \f2\-Z\f1 is used.
.IP "\f2\-o\f1 XXX"
Save the archive to files XXX.01 thru XXX.nn instead of standard out.
Must be used when the \f2\-l\f1 or the \f2\-L\f1 switches are used
.IP "\f2\-l\f1 XX"
Limit the output file size to XXk bytes but don't split input files.
.IP "\f2\-L\f1 XX"
Limit output file size to XXk bytes and split files if necessary. The archives
created with this option must be unpacked in correct order.
.IP "\f2\-S\f1"
Read list of files to be packed from the standard input rather than
from the command line.  Input must be in a form similar to
that generated by the find command, one filename per line.  This
switch is especially useful when the command line will not hold
the list of files to be packed. For example:
.nf

find . \-type f \-print | sort | shar \-S \-Z \-L50 \-o /tmp/big

.fi
If \f2\-p\f1 is specified on the command line, then the options
"\f2\-B\f1", "\f2\-T\f1", "\f2\-z\f1" and "\f2\-Z\f1" may be
included in the standard input (on a line separate from filenames).
The maximum number of lines of standard input, file names and
options, may not exceed 1024.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.ta 37n
shar *.c > cprog.shar	# all C prog sources
shar \-v *.[ch] > cprog.shar	# non-verbose, .c and .h files
shar \-B \-l28 \-oarc.sh *.arc	# all binary .arc files, into
	# files arc.sh.01 thru arc.sh.NN
shar \-f /lcl/src/u*.c > u.sh	# use only the filenames
.ta
.fi
.SH WARNINGS
.PP
No chmod or touch is ever generated for directories created when unpacking.
Thus, if a directory is given to shar, the protection and
modification dates of corresponding unpacked directory
may not match those of the original.
.PP
If a directory is passed to shar, it may be scanned more than once.  Therefore,
one should be careful not change the directory while shar is running.
.PP
Be careful that the output file(s) are not included in the inputs or shar
may loop until the disk fills up.  Be particularly careful when a directory
is passed to shar that the output files are not in that directory
(or a subdirectory of that directory).
.PP
Use of the \f2\-B\f1, \f2\-z\f1 or \f2\-Z\f1, and especially
\f2\-M\f1, may slow the archive process considerably, depending on
the number of files.
.PP
Use of \f2\-X\f1 produces shars which \f2WILL\f1 cause problems
with many unshar procedures.  Use this feature only for archives
to be passed among agreeable parties.  Certainly, \f2\-X\f1 is NOT
for shell archives which are to be submitted to Usenet.  Usage of
\f2\-B\f1, \f2\-z\f1 or \f2\-Z\f1 in net shars will cause you to
be flamed off the earth.  Not using \f2\-m\f1 or not using \f2\-F\f1
may also get you occasional complaints.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP 
unshar(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Error messages for illegal or incompatible options,
for non-regular, missing or inaccessible files or for (unlikely)
memory allocation failure.
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
shar3 is a derived work based on the efforts of:
decvax!microsof!uw-beave!jim (James Gosling at CMU)
Michael A. Thompson, Dalhousie University, Halifax, N.S., Canada
davidsen@sixhub (Bill Davidsen)
rhg@CPS.COM (Richard H. Gumpertz)
colas@avahi.inria.fr (Colas Nahaboo)
bill@netagw.com (Bill Aten)
dennis%nanovx@gatech.edu (Dennis Boylan)
wht%n4hgf@gatech.edu (Warren Tucker)
(other anonymous persons)

man pages:
jhd@irfu.se (Jan Dj{rv)
.fi
