.TH SU 1L "GNU Shell Utilities" "FSF" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
su \- run a shell with substitute user and group IDs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B su
[\-flmp] [\-c command] [\-s shell] [\-\-login] [\-\-fast]
[\-\-preserve-environment] [\-\-command=command] [\-\-shell=shell] [\-]
[\-\-help] [\-\-version] [user [arg...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page
documents the GNU version of
.BR su .
.B su
allows one user to temporarily become another user.  It runs a shell
with the real and effective user ID, group ID, and supplemental groups
of USER.  If no USER is given, the default is root, the super-user.
The shell run is taken from USER's password entry, or /bin/sh if none
is specified there.  If USER has a password,
.B su
prompts for the password unless run by a user with real user ID 0 (the
super-user).
.PP
By default,
.B su
does not change the current directory.  It sets the environment
variables `HOME' and `SHELL' from the password entry for USER, and if
USER is not the super-user, sets `USER' and `LOGNAME' to USER.  By
default, the shell is not a login shell.
.PP
If one or more ARGs are given, they are passed as additional
arguments to the shell.
.PP
.B su
does not handle /bin/sh or other shells specially
(setting argv[0] to "-su", passing -c only to certain shells, etc.).
.PP
On systems that have syslog,
.B su
can be compiled to report failed, and optionally successful,
.B su
attempts using syslog.
.PP
This program does not support a "wheel group" that restricts who can
.B su
to super-user accounts, because that can help fascist system
administrators hold unwarranted power over other users.
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-c COMMAND, \-\-command=COMMAND"
Pass COMMAND, a single command line to run, to the shell with a
.I \-c
option instead of starting an interactive shell.
.TP
.I "\-f, \-\-fast"
Pass the
.I \-f
option to the shell.  This probably only makes sense with
.B csh
and
.BR tcsh ,
for which the
.I \-f
option prevents reading the startup file (.cshrc).  With Bourne-like
shells, the
.I \-f
option disables filename pattern expansion, which is not a generally
desirable thing to do.
.TP
.I "\-\-help"
Print a usage message on standard output and exit successfully.
.TP
.I "\-, \-l, \-\-login"
Make the shell a login shell.  This means the following.  Unset all
environment variables except `TERM', `HOME', and `SHELL' (which are
set as described above), and `USER' and `LOGNAME' (which are set, even
for the super-user, as described above), and set `PATH' to a
compiled-in default value.  Change to USER's home directory.  Prepend
"\-" to the shell's name, to make it read its login startup file(s).
.TP
.I "\-m, \-p, \-\-preserve\-environment"
Do not change the environment variables `HOME', `USER', `LOGNAME', or
`SHELL'.  Run the shell given in the environment variable `SHELL'
instead of USER's shell from /etc/passwd, unless the user running
.B su
is not the superuser and USER's shell is restricted.  A restricted
shell is one that is not listed in the file /etc/shells, or in a
compiled-in list if that file does not exist.  Parts of what this
option does can be overridden by
.I \-\-login
and
.IR \-\-shell .
.TP
.I "\-s, \-\-shell shell"
Run SHELL instead of USER's shell from /etc/passwd,
unless the user running
.B su
is not the superuser and USER's shell is restricted.
.TP
.I "\-\-version"
Print version information on standard output then exit successfully.
