.TH UNSHAR 1 "August 12, 1990"
.SH NAME
unshar \- unpack a shar file
.SH SYNOPSIS
unshar [ \f2\-d\f1 directory ] [ \f2\-c\f1 ] [ \f2\-e\f1 | \f2\-E\f1 exit_line ] [ file ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Unshar scans mail messages looking for the start of a shell archive. It
then passes the archive through a copy of the shell to unpack it. It
will accept multiple files. If no files are given, standard input is used.
This manual page reflects unshar version 3.52.3.
.PP
The \f2\-d\f1 option tells unshar to change directory before unpacking
any files.
.PP
The \f2\-c\f1 option is passed through to 'sh' as a parameter to
the unpacked script.  Many archive shar scripts (including those
produced by shar 3.40 and newer) use this to indicate that existing
files should be overwritten.
.PP
Unshar can unpack shar files that are concatenated in one file with the
\f2\-e\f1 option, which separates files by recognizing the "exit 0" string
at the beginning of a line. 
The \f2\-E\f1 option allows you to specify the string that separates archives
if "exit 0" isn't appropriate. (Hint: most .signatures have a "\-\-" on a line
right before them). \f2\-e\f1 is equivalent to \f2\-E "exit 0"\f1.
.SH SEE ALSO
shar(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Any message from the shell may be displayed.
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Michael Mauldin at Carnegie-Mellon University
guido@mcvax (Guido van Rossum at CWI, Amsterdam)
davidsen@sixhub.uuxp (Bill Davidsen)
wht%n4hgf@gatech.edu (Warren Tucker)
rhg@CPS.COM (Richard H. Gumpertz)
colas@avahi.inria.fr (Colas Nahaboo)

man pages:
jhd@irfu.se (Jan Dj{rv)
.fi
.PP
