.TH UNZIP 1 "22 Aug 92 (v5.0)"
.SH NAME
unzip \- list/test/extract from a ZIP archive file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBunzip\fP [ \-\fBcflptuvxz\fP[\fBajnoqUV\fP] ] \fIfile\fP[\fI.zip\fP] [\fIfilespec\fP\ ...]
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfile\fP[\fI.zip\fP] \w'[\fIfilespec\fP]'u+2m
Path of the ZIP archive.  The suffix
``\fI.zip\fP'' is applied if the \fIfile\fP specified does not exist.
Note that self-extracting ZIP files are supported; just specify the
``\fI.exe\fP'' suffix yourself.
.IP [\fIfilespec\fP]
An optional list of archive members to be processed.
Expressions may be used to match multiple members; be sure to quote
expressions that contain characters interpreted by the operating
system. See DESCRIPTION (below) for more details.
.SH OPTIONS
.PD 0
.IP \-c \w'\-c'u+2m
extract files to stdout/screen (``CRT'')
.IP \-f
freshen existing files (replace if newer); create none
.IP \-l
list archive files (short format)
.IP \-p
extract files to pipe; no informational messages
.IP \-t
test archive files
.IP \-u
update existing files; create new ones if needed
.IP \-v
list archive files (verbose format)
.IP \-x
extract files in archive (default)
.IP \-z
display only the archive comment
.PD
.SH MODIFIERS
.PD 0
.IP \-a \w'\-a'u+2m
convert to MS-DOS textfile format (CR LF), Mac format (CR), Unix/VMS
format (LF), OR from ASCII to EBCDIC, depending on your system (only
use for TEXT files!)
.IP \-j
junk paths (don't recreate archive's directory structure)
.IP \-n
never overwrite existing files; don't prompt
.IP \-o
OK to overwrite files without prompting
.IP \-q
perform operations quietly (\-qq \(rh even quieter)
.IP \-s
[OS/2, MS-DOS] allow spaces in filenames (e.g., ``EA\ DATA.\ SF'')
.IP \-U
leave filenames uppercase if created under MS-DOS, VMS, etc.
.IP \-V
retain (VMS) file version numbers
.IP \-X
[VMS] restore owner/protection info (may require privileges)
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I UnZip
will list, test, or extract from a ZIP archive, commonly found on MSDOS
systems.
Archive member extraction is implied by the absence of the \-c, \-p,
\-t, \-l, \-v or \-z options.  All archive members are processed unless a
.I filespec
is provided to specify a subset of the archive members.  The
.I filespec
is similar to an egrep expression, and may contain:
.sp 1
.ta \w'[...]'u+2m
*	matches a sequence of 0 or more characters
.br
?	matches exactly 1 character
.br
\\nnn	matches the character having octal code nnn
.PD 0
.IP [...] \w'[...]'u+2m
matches any single character found inside the brackets; ranges
are specified by a beginning character, a hyphen, and an ending
character.  If an exclamation point or a carat (`!' or `^') follows
the left bracket, then the range of characters matched is complemented
with respect to the ASCII character set (that is, anything except the
characters inside the brackets is considered a match).
.PD
.SH ENVIRONMENT OPTIONS
\fIUnZip\fP's default behavior may be modified via options placed in
an environment variable.  This can be done with any option, but it
is probably most useful with the
\-q, \-o, or \-n modifiers:  in order to make \fIUnZip\fP quieter by 
default, or to make it always overwrite or never overwrite files as it
extracts them.  For example, to
make \fIUnZip\fP act as quietly as possible, only reporting errors, one would
use one of the following commands:
.ta \w'tabset'u +\w'UNZIP=-qq; export UNZIP'u+4m
.PP
.IP "\tsetenv UNZIP -qq\tUnix C shell"
.br
.IP "\tUNZIP=-qq; export UNZIP\tUnix Bourne shell"
.PP
.IP "\tset UNZIP=-qq\tOS/2 or MS-DOS"
.PP
.IP "\tdefine UNZIP_OPTS ""-qq""\tVMS (quotes for LOWERCASE)"
.PP
Environment options are, in effect, considered to be just like any other
command-line options, except that they are effectively the first options
on the command line.  To override
an environment option, one may use the ``minus operator'' to remove it.  For
instance, to override one of the quiet-flags in the example above, use the
command
.PP
.IP "\t\fIunzip\fP \-\-q[other options] zipfile"
.PP
The first hyphen is the normal
switch character, and the second is a minus sign, acting on the q option.
Thus the effect here is to cancel a single quantum of quietness.  To cancel
both quiet flags, two (or more) minuses may be used:
.PP
.IP "\t\fIunzip\fP \-x\-\-q zipfile"
.PP
or
.PP
.IP "\t\fIunzip\fP \-\-\-qx zipfile"
.PP
(the two are equivalent).  This may seem awkward
or confusing, but it is reasonably intuitive:  just ignore the first
hyphen and go from there.  It is also consistent with the behavior of Unix
nice(1).
.PD
.SH EXAMPLES
To use \fIUnZip\fP to extract all members of the archive letters.zip,
creating any directories as necessary:
.PP
.IP "\t\fIunzip\fP letters"
.PP
To extract all members of letters.zip to the current directory:
.PP
.IP "\t\fIunzip\fP -j letters"
.PP
To test letters.zip, printing only a summary message indicating
whether the archive is OK or not:
.PP
.IP "\t\fIunzip\fP -tq letters"
.PP
To extract to standard output all members of letters.zip whose names end
in ``.tex'', converting to the local end-of-line convention and piping the
output into more(1):
.PP
.IP "\t\fIunzip\fP \-ca letters \e*.tex | more"
.PP
(The backslash before the asterisk is only required if the shell expands
wildcards, as in Unix; double quotes could have been used instead, as in
the source example below.)\ \ To extract the binary file paper1.dvi to 
standard output and pipe it to a printing program:
.PP
.IP "\t\fIunzip\fP \-p articles paper1.dvi | dvips"
.PP
To extract all FORTRAN and C source files--*.f, *.c, *.h, Makefile (the
double quotes are necessary only in Unix and only if globbing is turned on):
.PP
.IP "\t\fIunzip\fP source.zip ""*.[fch]"" Makefile"
.PP
To extract only newer versions of the files already in the current directory,
without querying (NOTE:  be careful of unzipping in one timezone a zipfile 
created in another--ZIP archives contain no timezone information, and a 
``newer'' file from an eastern timezone may, in fact, be older):
.PP
.IP "\t\fIunzip\fP \-fo sources"
.PP
To extract newer versions of the files already in the current directory and
to create any files not already there (same caveat as previous example):
.PP
.IP "\t\fIunzip\fP \-uo sources"
.PP
.PP
In the last five examples, assume that UNZIP or UNZIP_OPTS is set to -q.
To do a singly quiet listing:
.PP
.IP "\t\fIunzip\fP \-\fIl\fP \fIfile\fP"
.PP
To do a doubly quiet listing:
.PP
.IP "\t\fIunzip\fP \-\fIql\fP \fIfile\fP"
.PP
To do a standard listing:
.PP
.IP "\t\fIunzip\fP \-\-\fIql\fP \fIfile\fP"
.PP
or
.PP
.IP "\t\fIunzip\fP \-\fIl\fP\-\fIq\fP \fIfile\fP"
.PP
or
.PP
.IP "\t\fIunzip\fP \-\fIl\fP\-\-\fIq\fP \fIfile\fP"
.PP
(extra minuses don't hurt).
.PD
.SH TIPS
The current maintainer, being a lazy sort, finds it very useful to define
an alias ``tt'' for ``unzip -tq''.  One may then simply type ``tt zipfile''
to test the archive, something which one ought make a habit of doing.
With luck \fIUnZip\fP will report ``No errors detected in zipfile.zip,''
after which one may breathe a sigh of relief.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
funzip(1), zip(1), zipcloak(1), zipinfo(1), zipnote(1), zipsplit(1)
.PD
.SH AUTHORS
Samuel H. Smith, Carl Mascott, David P. Kirschbaum, Greg R. Roelofs, Mark
Adler, Kai Uwe Rommel, Igor Mandrichenko, Johnny Lee, Jean-loup Gailly; Glenn
Andrews, Joel Aycock, Allan Bjorklund, James Birdsall, Wim Bonner, John Cowan,
Frank da Cruz, Bill Davidsen, Arjan de Vet, James Dugal, Jim Dumser, Mark
Edwards, David Feinleib, Mike Freeman, Hunter Goatley, Robert Heath, Dave
Heiland, Larry Jones, Kjetil J(o)rgenson, Bob Kemp, J. Kercheval, Alvin Koh,
Bo Kullmar, Johnny Lee, Warner Losh, Fulvio Marino, Gene McManus, Joe Meadows,
Mike O'Carroll, Humberto Ortiz-Zuazaga, Piet W. Plomp, Antonio Querubin Jr.,
Steve Salisbury, Georg Sassen, Jon Saxton, Hugh Schmidt, Martin Schulz, Charles
Scripter, Chris Seaman, Richard Seay, Alex Sergejew, Cliff Stanford, Onno van
der Linden, Jim Van Zandt, Antoine Verheijen, Paul Wells.
.PD
.SH VERSIONS
.ta \w'vx.x\ \ 'u +\w'fall 1989\ \ 'u
.PD 0
.IP "v1.2\t15 Mar 89" \w'\t\t'u
Samuel H. Smith
.IP "v2.0\t\ 9 Sep 89"
Samuel H. Smith
.IP "v2.x\tfall 1989"
many Usenet contributors
.IP "v3.0\t\ 1 May 90"
Info-ZIP (DPK, consolidator)
.IP "v3.1\t15 Aug 90"
Info-ZIP (DPK, consolidator)
.IP "v4.0\t\ 1 Dec 90"
Info-ZIP (GRR, maintainer)
.IP "v4.1\t12 May 91"
Info-ZIP
.IP "v4.2\t20 Mar 92"
Info-ZIP (zip-bugs subgroup; GRR, maint.)
.IP "v5.0\t21 Aug 92"
Info-ZIP (zip-bugs subgroup; GRR, maint.)
.PD
