.TH WHO 1L "GNU Shell Utilities" "FSF" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
who \- show who is logged on
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B who
[\-imqsuwHT] [\-\-count] [\-\-idle] [\-\-heading] [\-\-help]
[\-\-message] [\-\-mesg] [\-\-version] [\-\-writable] [file] [am i]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page
documents the GNU version of
.BR who .
If given no non-option arguments,
.B who
prints the following information for each user currently logged on:
.RS
.nf

login name
terminal line
login time
remote hostname or X display
.fi
.RE
.PP
If given one non-option argument,
.B who
uses that instead of /etc/utmp as the name of the file containing the
record of users logged on.  /etc/wtmp is commonly given as an argument
to
.B who
to look at who has previously logged on.
.PP
If given two non-option arguments,
.B who
prints only the entry for the user running it (determined from its
standard input), preceded by the hostname.
Traditionally, the two arguments given are `am i', as in
`who am i'.
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-m
Same as `who am i'.
.TP
.I "\-q, \-\-count"
Print only the login names and the number of users logged on.
Overrides all other options.
.TP
.I \-s
Ignored; for compatibility with other versions of
.BR who .
.TP
.I "\-i, \-u, \-\-idle"
After the login time, print the number of
hours and minutes that the user has been idle.
`.' means the user was active in last minute.
`old' means the user was idle for more than 24 hours.
.TP
.I "\-H, \-\-heading"
Print a line of column headings.
.TP
.I "\-w, \-T, \-\-mesg, \-\-message, \-\-writable"
Like
.IR \-s ,
plus after the login name print a character indicating the user's
message status:
.RS
.IP +
allowing \fBwrite\fP messages
.IP \-
disallowing \fBwrite\fP messages
.IP ?
cannot find terminal device
.RE
.TP
.I "\-\-help"
Print a usage message on standard output and exit successfully.
.TP
.I "\-\-version"
Print version information on standard output then exit successfully.
