.TH GOPHERD.CONF 5
.SH NAME
gopherd.conf \- configuration file for gopherd(8)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B gopherd.conf
file contains a list of directives that alter the behaviour of the
.BR gopherd (8)
server.  It is composed of lines of the form:
.IP
.I
Token:\ Value
.LP
Tokens are case insensitive and the value field will change, depending on the
token.  A pound sign at the beginning of a line signifies a comment line.

.I
Quick pseudo grammer

.IP
Admin:\ <Administrator\ Name/Info>
AdminEmail:\ <Email\ address\ of\ Administrator\ of\ the\ server>
Site:\ <Name\ of\ site>
Org:\ <Organization\ or\ group\ owning\ the\ site>
Loc:\ <city,\ state,\ country>
Geog:\ <latitude>\ <longitude>
Language:\ <default\ language>
hostalias:\ <DNS\ alias\ name>
viewext:\ <extension>\ <Gophertype>\ <Prefix>\ <Gopher+Type>\ [Langauge]
ignore:\ <extension>
blockext:\ <extension>\ <Blockname>
Bummermsg:\ <message>
site:\ <domain\ name|ip\ fragment|"default">\ <[!](browse|read|search)+>
decoder: <extension> <decoderprogram>
.LP

The following tokens are recognized
.TP 12
.I hostalias:
changes the hostname that is returned by the server.  This is useful
when the gopher server is defined by a CNAME record in the DNS system.
.TP
.I Admin:
The name of the administrator.  It may contain a name, a phone number,
etc.
.TP
.I AdminEmail:
An email address where the administrator can be reached.
.TP
.I Site:
The name of the site, such as
.B Turnip Research and Development Labs
.TP
.I Loc:
The physical location of the site, put stuff like the City, State, and
country in this field.
.TP
.I Geog:
The lattitude and longitude of the server location.  For instance, the
entry for Minneapolis, MN, USA would be:
.B 44 58 48 N 93 15 49 W
.TP
.I Language:
The ANSI language of the site, as used by setlocale().  Here are some
sample settings:
.IP
 Danish                  Da_DK
 Dutch (Belgium)         Nl_BE
 Dutch                   Nl_NL
 English (Great Britian) En_GB
 English (US)            En_US
 Finnish                 Fi_FI
 French (Belgium)        Fr_BE
 French (Canada)         Fr_CA
 French (Switzerland)    Fr_CH
 French                  Fr_FR
 German (Switzerland)    De_CH
 German                  De_DE
 Greek                   El_GR
 Icelandic               Is_IS
 Italian                 It_IT
 Japanese                Jp_JP
 Norwegian               No_NO
 Portuguese              Pt_PT
 Spanish                 Es_ES
 Swedish                 Sv_SE
 Turkish                 Tr_TR
.TP
.I viewext:
maps a filename extension onto a particular gopher type.  The first
parameter is a case insensitive extension like
.B .gif.
The next parameter is the single character gopher type (1,0,I,etc...)
The third parameter is a prefix that will be appended to the normal
filename path.  The fourth parameter is the gopher+ view attribute, such
as
.B image/gif
The optional fifth parameter is a language to use for the file instead
of the default language.
.TP
.I ignore:
specifies a filename extension to ignore completely.  Files matching
the ignore criteria are never presented to the gopher user.  However,
ignoring files does not protect them from prying eyes.
.TP
.I Blockext:
specifies that a file with a particular extension is to be mapped to a
specific gopher+ attribute block.  For instance the line:
.B Blockext: .abstract ABSTRACT 
would map all files with the extension .abstract into an abstract for
the file without the abstract extension.
.TP
.I Decoder:
specifies that the given program will be run on the given extension when
the file is retrieved.  This is most often used for compressed files.
.TP
.I BummerMsg: 
specifies a message that will be presented to the client when access
is denied.
.TP
.I access:
allows you to set who can browse directories, read files, and search
your system.  The first parameter is a domain name component (like
.micro.umn.edu), a fragment of an IP address (like 129.42.172), or the
special key "default"  The second parameter is a list of comma
separated words defining the access for the particular match,
optionally beginning with a negation character (!).  The three words
that define access levels are "browse", "read", and "search".  For
instance, to allow reading and browsing, but not searching specify
"read,browse,!search" for the second parameter.

If you're using the site access system, you'll want to set the default
access level *first*.  All following entries inherit the default that
you set.  For instance, if your default is "!read,!browse,!search' and
you want to turn on browse access for a certain machine you can just
specify "browse", not "!read,browse,!search"

.LP

.I
Sample gopherd.conf file

.IP
 #
 # The name we want to be known as
 #
 hostalias: gopher.turnip.com

 # Administrator

 Admin: Bob Bagel, Turnip Postmaster and Gopher support 1-800-555-1212 
 AdminEmail: gopher@turnip.com

 #
 # Site description
 #

 Site: Turnip Research and Development labs
 Org: Turnip Incorporated
 Loc: Minneapolis, MN, USA
 Geog: 44 58 48 N 93 15 49 W
 Language: En_US

 #
 # Extension mapping
 #

 # Different Languages
 viewext: .txt.spanish 0 0 Text/plain Es_ES
 viewext: .txt.german 0 0 Text/plain De_DE
 viewext: .txt.french 0 0 Text/plain Fr_FR

 viewext: .hqx 4 0 application/mac-binhex40

 #
 # Telnet file formats
 #
 viewext: .telnet 8 0 terminal/telnet
 viewext: .tn3270 T 0 terminal/tn3270

 #
 # Graphics file formats
 #
 viewext: .gif I 9 image/gif
 viewext: .pcx I 9 image/pcx
 viewext: .pict I 9 image/PICT
 viewext: .tiff I 9 image/TIFF
 viewext: .jpg I 9 image/JPEG
 viewext: .ppm I 9 image/ppm
 viewext: .pgm I 9 image/pgm
 viewext: .pbm I 9 image/pgm

 #
 # Sounds
 #
 viewext: .au s s audio/mulaw
 viewext: .snd s s audio/mulaw
 viewext: .wav s s audio/wave

 #
 # Movies
 #
 viewext: .quicktime 9 9 video/quicktime
 viewext: .mpg 9 9 video/mpeg

 #
 # Binary files
 #
 viewext: .tar.Z 9 9 file/tar.Z
 viewext: .tar 9 9 file/tar
 viewext: .zip 5 9 file/PKzip
 viewext: .zoo 5 9 file/Zoo
 viewext: .arc 5 9 file/Arc
 viewext: .lzh 5 9 file/Lharc
 viewext: .exe 5 9 file/PCEXE
 viewext: .mcb 9 9 file/MacBinary
 viewext: .uu 9 9 file/uuencode


 #
 # Various forms of text
 #
 viewext: .ps 0 0 Text/postscript
 viewext: .tex 0 0 Text/tex
 viewext: .dvi 0 9 Text/dvi
 viewext: .troff 0 0 Text/troff
 viewext: .unicode 0 0 Text/unicode
 viewext: .sjis 0 0 Text/sjis
 viewext: .jis 0 0 Text/jis
 viewext: .euc 0 0 Text/jis
 viewext: .big5 0 0 Text/big-5
 viewext: .rtf 0 0 Text/rtf
 viewext: .word5 0 0 Text/MSWord5
 viewext: .word4 0 0 Text/MSWord4
 viewext: .mw 0 0 Text/MacWrite
 viewext: .wp 0 0 Text/WordPerfect51

 viewext: .smell 9 9 smell/funky

 #
 #
 viewext: .mindex 7 mindex: Directory
 viewext: .src 7 waissrc: Directory
 viewext: .html h GET /h application/WWW

 #
 # Map files to certain blocks
 # 

 blockext: .abstract ABSTRACT
 blockext: .ask ASK


 #
 # Error message generated for non local hosts
 #
 Bummermsg: Sorry no access for non turnipheads.

 # Don't allow anyone to read or browse us, 
 # anyone can search though.
 access: default         !browse,!read,search
 #
 # allow any hostname that ends with 
 # turnip.com to browse and read
 #
 access: .turnip.com 	browse,read
 #
 # Allow anyone on a class C network 
 # (starting with 192) to browse
 #
 access: 192.		browse
 #
 # Allow anyone on the 128.101.193 network 
 # to read from us.
 #
 access: 128.101.193  	read
 #
 # Turn off searching for these bozos
 # they can't do anything
 #
 access: bozo.org	!search

.
