			   Groff Bug Report

Please read the PROBLEMS file before sending in a bug report.

Please fill in all fields, even if you think they are not relevant.

Please report separate bugs separately.

Send the completed form either to bug-groff@prep.ai.mit.edu or
directly to me: jjc@jclark.uucp or jjc%jclark@mcsun.eu.net (if neither
of those works for you, jjc@ai.mit.edu should forward.)  Messages sent
to bug-groff can sometimes take several days to reach me.

GROFF VERSION:
[The version of groff you are using.  For example, `1.00']

MACHINE:
[The machine you are using.  For example, `Sun 4/370']

OS:
[The operating system you are using.  For example, `SunOS 4.0.3']

COMPILER:
[The compiler you are used to compile groff. For example, `g++ 1.37.1']

INPUT FILES: [Include all the files necessary to reproduce the problem
that are not part of the standard groff distribution.  This includes
font description files, DESC files and macro files (with the exception
of the -ms and -mm macros: I have them).  Send them as as a shell
archive or as a uuencoded, compressed tar file.

It's easier for me if you can provide an example that doesn't depend
on any macro package, but obviously if you're reporting a problem with
a macro package that won't be possible.  Also a short example is more
convenient than a long one, but don't worry if you can't find a short
example.  Don't say something like ``any file that X'': always send a
definite example.]

COMMAND LINE:
[The command line that I should run in order to observe the bug. For
example, `gtroff -Tps bug.tr']

DESCRIPTION OF INCORRECT BEHAVIOUR:
[What goes wrong when that command line is run?  For example, `gtroff
gets a segmentation fault', or `The output looks bad because the bar
over the x is too long and is too far over to the left.'  If you get
an error message, include it here without modification: don't edit it
to make it more readable.]

SUGGESTED FIX [optional]:
[If you can suggest a fix for the problem, include a context diff
here.  But don't delay sending in a bug report in the hope of finding
a fix.  Guesses about the cause of the bug are not helpful.]
